The correct law come from. And na im know wetin go really give us happiness and make our mind come down.		who gave that perfect law, knows best the things humans need in order to be completely happy and satisfied.
Hear wetin one book, Pillars of Faith - American Congregations and Their Partners, talk. E sey: " Witness people no dey take this preaching work play.		The book Pillars of Faith - American Congregations and Their Partners states: " For 's, the missionary focus overwhelms all other concerns. "
So, if you dey do wetin want and you no leave am, you dey give something wey e like, wey dey make belle sweet am.		Thus, by your loyal obedience, you are, in effect, giving something that he considers precious, and he finds profound joy in this.
Which better things dey use Jesus sacrifice do for us now?		What blessings do we now receive from?
When man sperm enter inside woman body, e get where e go pass ( cervix ) before e reach where pikin dey grow for woman belle.		It also thickens the mucus at the cervix, thus creating a barrier to sperm moving from the vagina into the uterus.
Which example you fit use help your pikin make e get faith?		What illustration could you use to help your child build faith in God?
E trust imself, so e do wetin dey im mind. E go bribe Ben - hadad wey be Syria king make e help am fight Baasha.		In the latter case, Asa relied on his own wisdom and bribed King Ben - hadad of Syria to attack Baasha.
True true, know all the problem wey you dey face, and e fit give you the power to bear all of dem.		Yes, he takes notice of the trials you face, and he can give you the strength to endure each one of them.
And the more we dey respect dem, the more dem go dey happy to do the work. - Heb.		And the more we show our sincere respect for these hardworking overseers, the more we add to their joy. - Heb.
After Joseph explain give am finish, Joseph come tell am about wetin happen to am.		When Joseph shared this divinely inspired interpretation, he took advantage of the opportunity to explain his own situation.
And see wetin you go fit do so that you go fit fight make bless you.		And see what you can do to " wrestle, " or contend, for 's blessing.
And we still want make people praise am. We know sey na be the number one example of person wey get love and wey dey pity for people. ( Prov.		The principal reason should be your desire to imitate and glorify the Source of love and compassion, God.
Another thing wey fit make am hard for us to know where to do reach, na when we dey choose wetin to do.		Another test of our modesty might come when decisions are made.
Anytime wey school dey holiday every year, I like to dey do vacation pioneer ( wey we dey call auxiliary pioneer now ).		I enjoyed serving as a vacation pioneer ( now called an auxiliary pioneer ) during yearly school breaks.
As time dey go, e start to work for one place wey dem dey use paper wey people no need again. Dem dey use the paper make another thing. Na from there e start to dey look naked people picture.		Ribeiro left home when he was in his teens and in time began working in a paper - recycling plant, where he was exposed to pornographic materials.
As we dey near the time wey this world go end, the truth be sey, things go dey hard more more.		As this system nears its end, we can expect the pressures of life to increase.
Because of the new way wey dem take translate the word asher, the chapter come agree with the better hope wey David get. David get hope sey after God save im people from their enemy hand, God go bless dem with plenty things, and dem go happy. ( Lev. 26: 9, 10; Deut.		As a result of the adjusted rendering of the term asher, the psalm now reflects David 's well - founded hope that after God delivered the nation of Israel from its enemies, He would bless the people with happiness and prosperity.
Bible still let us know sey e dey sweet to judge well and to do wetin correct. - Ps.		Further, according to his own written Word, " he loves righteousness and justice. " - Ps.
Bible still talk sey: ' Na good people God go give this earth, and dem go stay there forever. ' ( Ps.		Later in the same psalm, we read: " The righteous will possess the earth, and they will live forever on it. "
But, since you don already get where you dey go for mind, you think sey you go confuse? So, e good to know where you dey go!		How good it is that you have your goal clearly in mind - finding the bus that is going to your chosen destination!
But, that one no mean sey Bible use wetin happen to the Jews show wetin go happen to Christians.		However, the Jewish captivity does not appear to be a prophetic type of what happened to Christians.
But, that one no mean sey Paul and other Christians for im time let the normal things for life come be the main thing for their life.		However, those servants of God did not allow such normal aspects of life to become the center of their lives.
But, you no think sey e go better to help your pikin use im brain?		Instead, why not stimulate your child 's imagination?
But if person no dey follow wetin talk, e fit choose wetin go put am for serious trouble. ( Isa.		But how well - founded are the moral standards of someone who refuses to acknowledge our loving Creator as the One who sets the standards of right and wrong?
But that one better pass to dey carry big big stone up and down. This punishment dey suffer person, e dey kill body and many prisoner no like am.		But at least we did not have to haul rocks endlessly back and forth, a sadistic torture that broke the bodies and minds of many unfortunate prisoners.
But the only thing wey e suppose put for mind na wetin promise am, sey: ' I go let you run comot with your life. '		However, the only thing he should have hoped for was to receive what promised him: " I will let you escape with your life. "
But we endure the pain. And we dey sure say nothing go make forget Daniel, even death.		Nevertheless, we endured our grief, confident that nothing - not even death - can separate Daniel from 's love.
Dem dey use am talk about group of soldier wey dem send go protect place.		It referred to a garrison of troops that was assigned to guard a fortified city in ancient times.
Dem dey worship me for nothing, because dem dey teach wetin people talk. ' ( Matt.		It is in vain that they keep worshipping me, for they teach commands of men as doctrines. "
Dem know sey the boy die, and Paul bring am come life again. This one really make everybody mind come down. - Acts 20: 7 - 12		Knowing the facts and grasping that a resurrection had occurred, they " were comforted beyond measure. " - Acts 20: 7 - 12.
Dem still send am go another place for five years.		Still, persecution did not stop the expansion of true worship.
Dem use simple English wey people dey speak today write am. E no sweet you sey we get this kind Bible?		Are we not grateful, then, to have the modern - language New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures?
Dey live simple life and no dey gather plenty property. - Luke 12: 15.		Keep your life simple and uncluttered. - Luke 12: 15.
E dey make dem happy, get peace, dey patient, get better mind, and dey do good. E still dey help dem get faith, dey sofri do things and dey sabi control theirself. ( Gal.		The Bible associates godly love with joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faith, mildness, and self - control.
E talk say: " They love each other.		Tertullian, a second - century writer, quoted non - Christians as saying: " They love one another.
E talk sey: " E no easy for me to pull my old character comot. The Bible verse wey help me na Isaiah 55: 7.		He explains: " It was a struggle for me to strip off my old personality.
Eve follow wetin Satan talk when e sey: " Una eye go open and una go be like God, come sabi wetin good and wetin bad. "		Satan 's tempting promise - " your eyes will be opened and you will be like God, knowing good and bad " - proved to be irresistible for Eve.
Even as things no easy, the brothers wey put mind for God work still dey do wetin God talk and dem no stop to pray make their Papa show dem way.		Throughout this period of test, faithful Bible Students had been " watching the Lord 's leading,. praying at all times for the Father 's guidance. "
For example, when some papa and mama see sey their pikin dey cry, dem go do anything wey the pikin want make e no cry again.		For instance, to calm a crying child, a sentimental parent may cater to the child 's every whim.
For small time, I work for Service Department and I teach for many of the school.		For a time, I worked in the Service Department and as an instructor in a number of the schools.
For there, e dey do things with brothers wey no be Jew.		While there, he freely associated with his Gentile brothers.
For this two topic, we go see how dey do im work as the ' Person wey dey mold us ' and wetin we go do so that we go be like soft clay for im hand.		In these two articles, we will see how fulfills his role as " our Potter " and what we must do in order to be like soft clay in his hands.
How body dey do you when you come back?		But how do we feel when we return?
How we go take know if we don dey love ourself pass God?		How can we determine if our love of God is being eclipsed by love of self?
I remember sey for 1952, one police officer tell Maria sey: " Talk sey you no be Witness again, or you go stay prison for ten years.		Back in 1952, a KGB officer had told Maria: " Renounce your faith or face ten years of imprisonment.
If husband and wife want make their marriage work, make dem dey do wetin want.		For success in marriage, each mate must accept personal responsibility and obey.
If person want do more work for organization, that one no mean sey na oversabi.		Being modest does not mean that we should never reach out for or accept additional privileges of service.
Im brothers sell am give people as slave when e dey around 17 years.		First, his brothers sold him into slavery when he was about 17 years old.
Instead, e sey make we " dey take love " bear am.		He added that we should do so " in love. "
JUDGE GIDEON and Israel soldier wey dey with am, pursue Midian people and all their soldier.		TRY to imagine the difficult and tiring battle between the Israelite soldiers, led by Judge Gideon, and their enemies.
Jacob and Rachel show Joseph their pikin better example. And this one help Joseph fit face the problem wey e later get.		The steadfast example set by Jacob and Rachel no doubt had a powerful effect on their son Joseph, influencing how he would handle tests of his own faith.
Witness people still dey preach that message.		s continue to deliver that message, using methods that Jesus and his disciples used.
people dey always want dey together.		s people have always looked forward to being with one another.
Jesus use example well well when e dey teach.		Jesus often used illustrations, which stimulate thinking, appeal to the heart, and aid the memory.
Know wetin you really need		Identify your actual needs
Like that time, paradise don near and we dey get wahala wey fit shake our faith.		Today, as we approach the new world, our faith is being tested.
Make we let tell us where we suppose do reach.		Knowing the consequences of Adam 's decision should move us to use our freedom responsibly and within the limits set by.
Many people wey dey serve today don repent from the bad thing wey dem do.		What confidence can a repentant Christian have?
Na 450 people for Belfast listen to the talk wey Brother Russell give for there. About 100 of dem stand because dem no see seat sitdown.		Brother Russell 's public talk in Belfast drew 450 locals, about 100 of whom had to stand because of a lack of room.
Na im make, anybody wey want understand Bible must read the one wey dem translate. Some people dey think sey e go good to learn the Hebrew and Greek wey dem take write Bible.		So virtually everyone who wants to understand God 's Word must read a translation of it - even those who know modern - day Hebrew or Greek.
Na im make I dey arrange time to study Bible and other publication for my own language. "		That is why I regularly set aside time to study the Bible and other publications in my mother tongue. "
Na so e be sometimes, when we get problem full ground.		Our problems may seem to overwhelm us at times.
Na so e go still be, if we get the character wey the spirit dey help us get.		Personality - the unique set of traits that each of us has and that varies from one person to another - can make for rich friendships.
Na that same day we marry.		We got married that same day.
Na this one come make tell am sey: ' As far as I dey alive, you go die for Babylon.		As a result, passed judgment on him in these words: " As surely as I am alive,.
No be just to greet dem. This one give us time to know dem. "		That allowed time to converse beyond just saying a simple greeting.
No be new thing to see people wey dey carry shoulder up and people wey dey mek mouth about their tribe, country, village, or where dem come from.		It is common for people to be proud and boast about their race, tribe, culture, city, or country.
One of our book wey be Insight on the Scriptures, Volume 2, explain wetin e mean for person to get sense as Bible talk am. E sey " person wey get sense dey fit use wetin e know and wetin e understand take handle problem well. E go fit still help am comot im head from wahala, do wetin e get for mind to do, or advice other people to do am. Person wey no get sense no fit do all this things. "		Insight on the Scriptures, Volume 2, explains that, in the Bible, wisdom includes " the ability to use knowledge and understanding successfully to solve problems, avoid or avert dangers, attain certain goals, or counsel others in doing so.
People for the whole world want freedom.		People around the world are demanding more freedom.
Person wey no dey do oversabi know sey e suppose pray to everytime.		A modest person is keenly aware that he can and must be in constant communication with his loving and almighty Father.
Problem dey Israel that time.		Rehoboam must have found the atmosphere in Israel thick with tension.
Real flower need water every time so that e go grow well but if we no dey give am water as we suppose, e go die.		If deprived of sufficient water, a once healthy plant will eventually die.
So, instead make dem do wetin Jesus tell dem, their body wey don weak come make dem sleep.		Rather than watching out for their Master, they gave in to the urge of their flesh and went to sleep.
So, make we use all our mind and power help dem come out to show sey we dey do like our brothers and sisters for World War I!		By all means, then, in imitation of our brothers in the past century, let us do all we can to help them get free!
So my mama come dey study Bible with me anytime my papa comot for house.		However, I was curious and asked questions, so she studied with me when my father was out of the house.
So wetin we go do if brother or sister for congregation talk or do wetin vex us?		How, then, can we handle occasions when one of God 's servants says or does something that hurts our feelings?
Some of Israel people dey serve only - the God wey their papa - papa Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob serve.		Faithful Israelites knew and worshipped only one God - the God of their forefathers Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob.
Sometimes, na only person know how something dey pain am reach. To even talk am come out, fit be wahala. Bible talk sey: ' Na only person know wetin dey pain am for mind.		At times, only a person 's own heart grasps the full depth of the emotional pain, and it may be difficult for him to voice his innermost feelings.
Still get am for mind sey Jesus sacrifice go make you get life wey no go end.		Have faith that the ransom offers you the hope of eternal life.
Talk the main point for the verse and explain am		Isolate and explain key portions of a passage
That church na part of Babylon the Great. - Read Revelation 17: 1, 2. Wetin the Bible Students do wey show sey dem want comot hand from fake religion?		What decisive action did the Bible Students take, showing that they understood the need to separate themselves from false religion?
The Watch Tower still talk sey, Jesus go help or protect that person if e get faith. After hundred years, another Watchtower come talk sey the city mean wetin God don arrange for our time to protect person wey kill somebody.		A century later, The Watchtower identified the antitypical city of refuge as " God 's provision for protecting us from death for violating his commandment about the sanctity of blood. "
The book talk sey Paul ' short, e no get plenty hair for head, e get bow leg, e get muscle, e eyebrow near each other, and e nose long. '		In this he is described as ' small in size, bald - headed, bandy - legged, well built, with eyebrows meeting; rather long nosed. ' "
The chairman talk sey when that morning program don start, anybody wey want comot fit comot, but dem no go allow am enter the hall again.		The chairman announced that during this important session, anyone was free to leave, but no one would be allowed to reenter the hall.
The disciple wey im name na James, talk wetin we go do to really dey happy and enjoy life.		The Christian disciple James pointed out the key to finding true happiness and satisfaction.
The truth be sey, e dey among the ' good news about God Kingdom ' wey we dey preach. ( Matt.		In fact, it is a vital part of the " good news of the Kingdom. "
This kind question fit help us sabi some things wey no easy to quick know.		Background information of this nature may bring to light lessons that are not immediately obvious.
This topic go talk about why we dey gain when we use the better things wey we get take support work.		This article will consider why and how we benefit from honoring with our valuable things.
To teach your pikin well, wetin dey Bible must first dey your mind ( Check paragraph 17 )		If you are going to be an effective teacher, God 's Word must first be in your heart ( See paragraph 17 )
Today, dey help people for everywhere learn about am. All of us fit join hand do this work wey dey make people come serve.		We can all have a share in the great teaching campaign that is having done today.
Una wey be husband, make una continue to dey love una wife and make una no dey over vex for dem.		You husbands, keep on loving your wives and do not be bitterly angry with them.
We dey always go preaching together. - Acts 20: 20.		We regularly engaged in the house - to - house ministry as a family. - Acts 20: 20.
We dey do everything wey we fit do to preach well well?		Are we doing all we can as zealous Kingdom publishers?
Wetin dey their mind pass na how to gather plenty money, or to keep the one wey dem don already get.		They are focused on accumulating wealth or on holding on to what they have.
Wetin e teach people dey make their mind come down.		His words and teachings were a source of refreshment to his listeners.
Wetin make us believe say de happy as we de preach?		Why can all of us have a fruitful ministry?
Wetin papa and mama go do to fit mold their pikin well?		What must parents do if they want to be truly effective in molding their children?
Wetin show sey want make im people dey do things well?		Why should we expect 's worshippers to be organized?
Wetin we go gain if we de follow law for Bible?		How do we benefit from following God 's laws?
Wetin we suppose do if we make mistake?		If we fall short of upholding God 's sovereignty, what should we do?
Wetin you go do if person no treat you well?		What can you do if others treat you unfairly?
When I dey 16 years, I promise for prayer sey I want use my life serve am. So for July 24, 1954 I come baptize for one convention for Toronto wey dey Canada.		At the age of 16, I dedicated my life to, getting baptized on July 24, 1954, at a convention in Toronto, Canada.
When dem open am, the water go pass under enter the one wey dey Bethzatha.		A sluice gate within the structure of this dam could be opened in order to allow water to flow from the reservoir through a channel into the bottom of the ritual bath.
Which blessing we dey get because of favor?		What blessings come to us as a result of 's undeserved kindness?
Which time God go bring people wey don die come life? '		When will the resurrection that I am hoping for occur? '
Why E Good Make We ' Continue to Dey Watch '?		Why Must We " Keep on the Watch "?
With this style, we go fit understand this new things, come add am join wetin we know before.		In this way, we are certain to place the new truth securely in our own treasure store.
You fit join people wey dey help brothers wey dey wahala.		Share in relief work.
You get your own angel wey dey protect you?		Do we have a guardian angel?
You take time read the Watchtower wey never tey wey we print?		Have you carefully read the recent issues of The Watchtower?
paragraph 13 ) Go check the topic " The Bible 's View on Divorce and Separation, " for the appendix wey dey back of " Keep Yourselves in God 's Love " book, pp. 219 - 221. "		paragraph 13 ) See the book " Keep Yourselves in God 's Love, " appendix, " The Bible 's View on Divorce and Separation. "
dey protect strangers. ' - PS.		is protecting the foreign residents. " - PS.
Paul no just talk sey make we dey " bear wetin people do " us.		Note that he did not simply say that we should be " putting up with one another. "
Wetin tell Job really touch im heart, na this one make am talk sey: " Now I know sey you fit do everything. And I know sey e no get anything wey you get for mind wey you no fit do.		s words reached Job 's heart, for he humbly said to God: " Now I know that you are able to do all things and that nothing you have in mind to do is impossible for you.
Because dem no leave God, e make us remember wetin Isaiah talk about Israel people wey repent.		Their loyalty to God calls to mind Isaiah 's words concerning repentant Israelites: " O, you are our Father.
Make we remember sey we get sin for body. This one fit make us no dey show love sometimes.		Of course, in doing so we must remember that we too are sinful and prone to unloving acts.
How we fit show sey we support God Kingdom today?		How do we show our support for the Kingdom today?
The thing wey Brother Hughes talk touch my heart, and e help me serve with joy again.		His comments touched my heart and helped me regain my spiritual balance.
Na true sey Jesus go really wait, but we dey sure sey e no go wait for nothing.		It will have been a long wait, but we can be sure that the wait will be worth it.
Wetin E Mean for God Spirit to Direct Person?		What Does It Mean to Be a Spiritual Person?
Heb. 12: 12 ) For example, we fit tell the brother wey give talk about wetin we learn from im talk and how the talk take help us understand Bible verse wey hard us before.		For instance, we might tell a public speaker how his talk gave us advice we needed or helped us to understand a certain scripture.
For this topic, we go talk about four reason why we need to continue to preach as Bible talk - am.		So, then, let us consider four Scriptural reasons for preaching.
Do Wetin You Promise '		What You Vow, Pay "
E no go let this world stay pass when e want, and nobody go fit talk sey e no judge the matter well.		There will be no stay of execution, and there will be no lingering doubts about the justice of the sentence.
Heb. 12: 11 ) ( 3 ) choose elders and e train dem to fit help person wey repent.		Third, elders are commissioned and trained to reassure repentant sinners, helping to ease their pain and guilt.
E still write sey: ' I go praise, the person wey don advise me.		He also wrote: " I will praise, who has given me advice.
All this years, Angie my wife don show sey e no go leave. And that one don make our marriage strong.		Through the years, Angie 's uncompromising loyalty to has been a source of strength in our marriage.
And na this one dey make dem ' understand wetin good, wetin correct, and dem go know everything wey good. '		As a result, the upright are able to " understand what is righteous and just and fair, the entire course of what is good. "
And this one don make people for Bethel near each other well well.		This arrangement has drawn Bethel families closer than ever.
Angels dey help Governing Body.		Evidence of angelic assistance.
As dey draw you comot, e dey tell you sey: ' No fear.		As he does so, he fortifies you with the assurance: " Do not be afraid.
As e be sey one person no fit make people Jesus disciple ' for the whole world ', e mean sey na many people go join hand do this work.		Since one individual would not be able to go to " all the nations, " this work would require the organized efforts of many.
As we don learn, e pain Paul as Jew people no accept the good news.		As considered, Paul felt discouraged by the Jews ' negative reaction to the Kingdom message.
Because dem dey like to sing, we come type some of our Kingdom song share give dem.		They enjoyed singing, so we typed out and distributed the words of some Kingdom songs.
Because of this one, if the blood wey dey come out of woman body every month too much, doctor fit advice am to use this IUD wey get hormone even if e never marry.		IUDs with less copper will be less effective. "
Bible even talk sey: ' The world dey comot. '		The Bible says: " The world is passing away. "
Bible sey e ' use im sense ' plan wetin e go do. E ' make friend ' with people wey go help am when dem comot am for work.		After being accused of wastefulness, the steward acted with " practical wisdom " to " make friends " to help him when he lost his stewardship.
Bible still talk sey Joseph na rich man. - Matt.		It is no surprise that Joseph was also rich. - Matt.
Bible tell us the answer when e sey: ' Na true sey, na person dey build house, but na God make everything. ' - Heb.		The Bible answers: " Every house is constructed by someone, but the one who constructed all things is God. " - Heb.
But, Paul no stop to preach to them.		Even so, he did not give up on them.
But I no want let anything make me stop to pioneer. "		But I did not want to stop pioneering for anything. "
But e do wetin e promise. E send im daughter go serve for tabernacle wey dey Shiloh. And the pikin no go ever comot for there. - Judg.		But he kept his vow and sent his virgin daughter to Shiloh to serve at the tabernacle for the rest of her life. - Judg.
But holy spirit help am change. Na im make e come later write sey: ' For everything I dey get power from the person wey dey give me power. ' ( Phil.		The apostle Paul, who as a young man was deeply influenced by the proud spirit of Jewish religious leaders, could later write: " For all things I have the strength through the one who gives me power. "
But plenty gain dey: Your heart go strong pass before, you go near more, and people go respect you. "		But you always get outstanding benefits: You gain confidence, you feel closer to, and you earn the respect of those who love you. "
But we fit don dey get strong head if we dey see only people mistake, or dey feel sey wetin we do no bad. So, make we beg God to forgive us and help us.		If, however, we begin to develop a critical attitude or to excuse a wrong course rather than seek God 's forgiveness and help, our heart may already be hardening.
But wetin go help us so that e trap no go catch us?		How can we avoid being caught in this trap?
Dem continue to dey fight and do wetin dem pray for.		They kept on contending and acting in harmony with their earnest prayers.
E be like sey na Luke first reach where Eutychus fall put.		Perhaps the physician Luke was the first to reach Eutychus, and Luke made a medical assessment: Eutychus was not merely injured and unconscious - he was dead!
E dey tey well well before food dey done.		Preparing a meal seemed to take ten times longer than we were used to, " says Adria.
E get many question wey person fit ask.		Many questions could be asked.
E know sey all the better character and the things wey e get na because carry imself down come help am. ( Ps.		The qualities, abilities, and privileges David had were because God ' stooped down, ' or humbled himself, to pay attention to him.
E show sey you dey allow correct you. - Prov.		You are allowing to mold, or discipline, you for your benefit. - Prov.
E still tell dem many times after this one sey: ' Make una continue to dey watch. '		After that, Jesus admonished them repeatedly: " Keep on the watch. "
E talk sey, ' I no sure sey na life I dey live that time.		My life was going nowhere, " says Adolfo.
Everything wey we dey do for Bethel na to worship.		Everything we do at Bethel is sacred service.
For 1987, one brother tell me sey make I go check one person wey like our message for Balykchy.		In 1987 a brother asked me to visit an interested person living in the town of Balykchy.
For September 2014, we join Bible School for Single Brothers and Bible School for Christian Couples as one school. So, the new name come be School for Kingdom Evangelizers.		Starting in the 2015 service year, those two schools were combined, forming the School for Kingdom Evangelizers.
For apostles their time, which example show say people fit dey as one even though say e no easy?		What first - century examples prove that people can overcome disunity?
For front: Alyona, Raya, Svetlana		Front row: Alyona, Raya, Svetlana
For only last year, the different different book wey dey talk about Bible wey we make na around 4.5 billion.		Last year alone, we produced approximately 4.5 billion pieces of Bible literature.
For the two part for Bible wey dem use Hebrew and Greek language write, tell us sey make we dey use wetin e don give us do better thing.		Through his Word, repeatedly admonishes us to use our abilities for good.
God holy spirit and wetin Ribeiro read for Bible don help am pull im old character comot. Ribeiro don baptize, and na elder e be for im congregation now.		Helped by the power of God 's Word and his holy spirit, Ribeiro stripped off his old personality, got baptized, and now serves as a congregation elder.
I tell sey: " If the dog dem reach where we dey, abeg, make we quick die! "		We held hands, and I even prayed, ", please, when they get us, may we die quickly! "
If some of God servant make mistake, how we go behave?		How should we view the faults of others?
Im and im husband come agree to go carry pikin.		She and her husband decided to adopt a child.
Irina wey be our first born, dey stay for Germany with im family.		Our eldest daughter, Irina, and her family live in Germany.
allow Satan suffer Job. This one give Job the chance to show sey e hold God tight, and e dey serve am because e love am.		Instead, he gave Job the opportunity to prove his integrity, to show that his worship stemmed from a pure, unselfish heart.
Later, e come get one matter wey the governing body need to handle. Dem come dey think am if the brothers wey no be Jew need to circumcise as Moses Law talk.		Later, the governing body was called upon to decide whether non - Jewish Christians should be required to submit to circumcision, as had been required of Jews by the Law of Moses.
Make we do wetin we talk.		We should keep our word.
Make we no copy ' people wey no know God ', wey no believe sey our Father for heaven love us and e ready to help anybody wey dey put im Kingdom as the number one thing for life.		We should not imitate the people of " the nations, " who have no real faith in a loving heavenly Father who cares for those who put the interests of his Kingdom first in their life.
Make we no ever forget sey ' God big pass our heart and e know everything. '		Let us never forget, though, that " God is greater than our hearts and knows all things. "
My papa, my mama, and my friends fit trust me. " Another sister na Victoria.		And my parents and my friends know that they can trust me. "
Na God spirit we want make e dey control our life no be how people for this world take dey live life. Na this spirit God dey use help us sabi wetin go soon happen for front. ( 1 Cor.		Instead of the world 's spirit, we welcome in our life the influence of God 's spirit by which has given us a clear understanding of the events that lie ahead of us.
Na because no give human being right to choose wetin good and wetin bad by theirself. - Read Proverbs 20: 24 and footnote; Jeremiah 10: 23.		Simply because did not give humans the freedom to determine for themselves what is good and what is bad. - Read Proverbs 20: 24 and footnote; Jeremiah 10: 23.
Na e make Paul no happy say they no listen to the good news.		So it pained Paul to see them reject God 's mercy.
Na im mek bless am and bless Israel people. - Hebrews 11: 32, 33.		This attitude resulted in 's blessing, both for himself and for the Israelites. - Hebrews 11: 32, 33.
Na small small I go tell am things wey go make am believe. "		It comes from many small pieces of evidence. "
Na wetin I do be that, and na better blessing e come be for me!		That 's what I did, and what a blessing it was!
No, because sheep wey dey one group dey always dey together and dem dey follow the shepherd waka.		No, because a flock of sheep stays together and follows the shepherd.
No comot eye for anything wey you dey learn, even if e be like sey e small.		Pay close attention to details.
No wonder Jesus talk sey: ' Poor people go always dey with una. '		Jesus recognized this harsh reality with the words: " You always have the poor with you. "
Number two, we must beg God for holy spirit.		Second, we must pray for God 's holy spirit.
One way to show sey we hold tight, na to follow wetin Bible and organization talk if we want choose wetin go really affect our life.		When we make major decisions in life, one way to demonstrate our loyalty to God is by seeking help from his written Word and organization.
Or we go follow wetin Bible talk?		Or do we look for Bible principles and try to apply them, thus showing that we rely on 's way to solve problems?
Paul tell the brothers and sisters about the Person wey dey give real freedom.		Paul directed his fellow believers to the Source of true freedom.
People wey love know sey if dem thief, e go spoil name. ( Prov.		Those who love God realize that any form of stealing would " dishonor the name of [ their ] God. "
Proverbs 3: 11, 12 talk sey: " My pikin, no hate correction, and no trowey am.		My son, do not reject the discipline of,. for those whom loves he reproves, " says Proverbs 3: 11, 12.
So, e tell dem sey: ' " Throw the net go the right side for the boat. Una go see some catch. "		Then he said to them: " ' Cast the net on the right side of the boat and you will find some. '
So na only we suppose worship. - Read Revelation 4: 11.		Only is to be worshipped. - Read Revelation 4: 11.
Some matter fit serious pass some.		Some decisions are weightier than others.
That one come make me dey sure sey go take care of me.		Observing 's caring hand helped me to trust that he would also look after me.
The one wey better pass be sey, we go make happy when we know who we go praise and where we suppose praise and respect dem reach.		The most important benefit of giving proper honor to those to whom it is due is that we thereby please God.
The time wey one convention department get new overseer, the overseer call one brother for phone to ask am whether e go fit join work for convention.		When the new overseer of a convention department phoned a brother to ask if he would be able to volunteer, the brother made a number of cutting remarks and hung up.
This kind correction dey show sey love the person.		Even when that is the case, such discipline reflects God 's love for us.
This one come make the senior oga think well well.		we reasoned. The general thought long and hard.
This things wey we dey learn go make us know why we dey serve God, help us plan how we go do more for God work and to do wetin we suppose do as people wey dey serve God.		That training can help us to have the proper motivation, to set spiritual goals, and to fulfill our many Christian responsibilities.
True true, as the Bible talk, ' the peace wey God dey give ' make my mind come down. ( Phil. 4: 7, ftn. )		As the Bible promises, " the peace of God " was ' guarding my heart and my thoughts. '
We get plenty reason to dey thank.		There are many reasons why we should be thankful to!
Wetin Paul write na true.		What Paul wrote was true.
Wetin be some arrows wey Satan de use shoot us?		What are some of Satan 's " burning arrows "?
Wetin dem do agree with wetin want. Yes, want make different kind of people know the truth about am. - 1 Tim.		Their desire was in harmony with God 's will that " all sorts of people should be saved and come to an accurate knowledge of truth. " - 1 Tim.
Wetin fit help you continue to bear the wahala, and still trust?		If so, what can help you to continue to endure with full confidence in?
Wetin this one suppose make us do today? Judges 5: 9, 10 help us see how people wey follow Barak go the war take different from people wey no go.		At Judges 5: 9, 10, we see a further contrast between the attitude of those who marched with Barak and that of those who did not.
When we dey study children, wetin go dey our mind?		In helping children, what should be borne in mind?
Which freedom God give us?		What is free will?
Which mistake Peter make when e dey Antioch for Syria?		What error did Peter make while in Syrian Antioch?
Why we fit talk sey we don ' die leave sin '?		How is it that we can consider ourselves " dead with reference to sin "?
You go gree make mold you to something wey e like?		Do you see yourself as soft clay in God 's hands, willing to be molded into a vessel that is desirable in his eyes?
No stop to dey forgive unaself. ' - COL.		Continue. forgiving one another freely. " - COL.
If we get better word wey fit make people strong, make we no close our mouth!		If we can offer a word of encouragement, why not speak up?
Make we copy the kind faith wey all this servant of God for olden days get as dem value the freedom wey give dem, and dem use am do wetin want.		May we imitate the faith of such ancient ones by treasuring our gift of free will and using it to do God 's will.
If we love people, we go treat dem well whether dem go school or dem no go.		In contrast, love will move us to avoid any discrimination based on education, race, or social status.
no want make we suffer like that. - Read Isaiah 48: 17, 18.		How wants to spare us from such needless suffering! - Read Isaiah 48: 17, 18.
For Paradise, Jesus go do the work wey don give am, to ' resurrect and give life ' to people. - John 11: 25.		In Paradise, Jesus will fulfill his role as " the resurrection and the life. " - John 11: 25.
E no go easy at all for any family wey love, that time, to still dey do wetin want.		It must have been very hard for families who loved to stay faithful during those difficult years.
Use all your mind believe sey go protect you. E go give you ' power wey pass normal power, ' and help you stand well make you no enter Satan trap. - 2 Cor.		Have complete confidence in 's promise to watch over you, to give you " the power beyond what is normal, " and to help you withstand any attempts to frighten you into submission. - 2 Cor.
Wetin dem do so that their love for go still strong?		How did the parents stay spiritually strong?
Na true sey Paul sabi encourage people. But sometimes, e still need person to tell am better word wey go help am. - Read Romans 15: 30 - 32.		Yes, Paul, who gave outstanding encouragement to others, at times needed to be built up himself. - Read Romans 15: 30 - 32.
You Still Remember?		Do You Remember?
Na we de gain when we follow wetin Bible talk. And when we see the gain, our love for and e law go strong pass as e dey before.		When we experience the rich rewards that come from doing things 's way, our heart naturally grows in love and appreciation for both and his laws.
Which kind problem people wey dey follow Jesus go face?		What effect do Jesus ' teachings have?
To study Bible dey sweet well well. If we want enjoy am, make we no dey read am like person wey dey read novel, just because e want read am.		Although Bible study can be enjoyable, we should not expect the Bible to read like a novel that is written just to entertain.
Wetin Paul talk for this verse show sey im and Timothy na tight friend and dem work well together.		This brief statement points to the close cooperation between Paul and Timothy.
make sure sey this woman story dey Bible. This na better example for us to follow.		Her record of generosity has been preserved in God 's Word as a fine example for us to imitate.
Which example for Bible show sey want make we dey tell people wetin go make dem strong?		What Bible examples show that considers it important to give encouragement?
Which warning apostle Peter give us about how we go take use our freedom?		What warning did the apostle Peter give about using our freedom?
After one year, we come born our first daughter. E name na Irina. But I no stay with my pikin tey.		A year later, our daughter Irina was born, but the joy of being with her was cut short.
All of dem agree to follow the " Vow of Obedience and Poverty. " Dem sey dem go do any work wey dem give dem to support the preaching work, dem no go pursue money or gather property, and dem no go do any other work apart from God work unless dem allow dem.		They are all bound by a " Vow of Obedience and Poverty, " with which they agree to do whatever is assigned to them in the advancement of Kingdom interests, to live a simple lifestyle, and to abstain from secular employment without permission.
All this plenty things wey don give us dey make us remember wetin talk for Bible sey, ' better food go dey for everybody. ' - Isa.		Such an abundance of spiritual food reminds us that has kept his promise to " make for all the peoples a banquet of rich dishes. " - Isa.
And how take bless us?		Why did we accept it, and how did bless us?
Another miracle happen after Elisha die.		But that was not the final startling event involving Elisha.
Another thing wey happen wey make me later change congregation, na when I start to pray with the language wey I dey speak for school.		Another turning point came when I began to pray in my school language.
Because we still dey this wicked world, make we get am for mind sey people go treat us anyhow.		As long as we live in this system of things, we can expect to experience injustices.
Before USSR fall for 1991, e pass 40,000 publishers wey dey.		Before the fall of the USSR in 1991, there were just over 40,000 publishers.
Before that time, Witness people don sabi sey Christian no suppose fight war.		s servants had long understood that Christians should not fight for one nation against another.
Before we join people, we stop to do the things wey hate. ( 1 Cor.		We have put away sinful practices that would disqualify us as members of the Christian congregation.
But, we come tell am sey another oga for the group fit see us with the horse and e go tell us make we use am carry gun; wetin we go do if e happen like that.		But what if an officer sees us with the mule and orders us to carry weapons to the front lines?
But as I begin study Bible, I come see say I need to first start with my own heart.		When I began to study the Bible, however, I realized that I had to start with my own heart.
But as time de go, my wife begin sick. So, we pack go place wey e get warm weather pass the place wey we dey before.		In time, however, Lene 's poor health required that we move to a warmer climate.
But belle still sweet us sey, wetin we contribute dey help people wey dey do am. ( Prov.		It allows us to take advantage of our circumstances to help others.
Catholic priests do everything wey dem fit do so that government people for the area no go let us do assembly.		Catholic priests pressured some local authorities not to give us permits for assemblies.
Church come tire me but I still dey pray, dey tell God sey: " I want sabi who you be.		I felt disappointed, but I kept praying to God: " I want to get to know you.
David fit even kill Nathan if e talk.		It could even endanger Nathan 's life if he spoke up.
Dem Comot Hand From Fake Religion, Nov.		Called Out of Darkness, Nov.
Dem choose sey dem go do all the things wey God sey make dem do to be im special people. All of dem sey: ' Everything wey don talk, we ready to do am. ' ( Ex.		They freely chose to carry out the conditions of becoming God 's name people and unanimously declared: " All that has spoken, we are willing to do. "
Dem know sey dem no suppose take wetin no be their own. Dem come use that chance talk about Witness people, and give dem some of our book.		They felt that they had to be honest, and they used this opportunity to talk about 's and to leave some literature with the family.
E come dey do us like sey mek we go house back.		We missed our family very much.
E go good if all of us fit ' make each other faith strong well well. ' - Rom.		How refreshing it is when all of us play our part in " an interchange of encouragement "! - Rom.
E surprise me say Brother Hughes de smile as e de tell me wetin happen.		I was surprised to see Brother Hughes smile at the memory.
E talk sey, ' No waste time! '		He said, " Go for it! "
E use My Book of Bible Stories take tell dem Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego story.		Using My Book of Bible Stories, she explained how the account of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego had a bearing on her decision.
E want make papa and mama love their children as e take love Adam and Eve.		He wanted Adam and Eve and all parents after them to love their children as loved his first perfect human children.
FOR March 26, 1937, two brothers wey their name na Arthur Willis and Bill Newlands sofri drive their motor wey dust full im body enter one place wey dem dey call Sydney for Australia.		ON MARCH 26, 1937, two travel - weary men slowly drove their dusty truck into Sydney, Australia.
For 1950, one Witness come dey study Bible with my mama.		In 1950, one of 's began sharing the Bible 's message with my mother.
For inside all the people wey dey alive for im time, e show sey im na good person.		He proved himself faultless among his contemporaries.
How take help im people? For 520 B.C.E., e send prophet Zechariah go meet dem.		To help his people recall why they were freed from Babylon in the first place, God sent his prophet Zechariah in 520 B.C.E.
How Jesus make - am clear say e no want rule for this world?		How did Jesus make clear that he did not seek political power on earth?
How e take dey do am? One way, na when we pray to am if we get problem.		One way that we can receive help to deal with our personal trials or tribulations is through prayer.
How we go take do am? Make we see.		What will help us to do so?
I surprise.		I looked at him in surprise.
If we know how people wey come from another place take dey do things for their side, e go help us know how we go take dey do things with dem.		If we learn about the homeland and culture of those from a foreign background, we may find it easier to interact with them.
If you want get strong faith, you go sabi Bible well well.		Strong faith rests on more than just basic knowledge of the Bible.
Instead, e do wetin God talk and e build the ark.		Even so, he centered his life, not on material concerns, but on God.
King David sleep with Bath - sheba and after, e kill Uriah wey be Bathsheba husband. ( 2 Sam.		King David committed adultery with Bath - sheba, and afterward he had her husband, Uriah, killed.
Know wetin you really need and no dey buy anything wey you no need.		Identify your actual needs, and eliminate unnecessary expenses.
Make we talk about the example of the Ethiopia man wey dey follow Jew people worship God. The man go worship God for Jerusalem.		Consider the example of the Ethiopian proselyte who was returning home after going to Jerusalem to worship.
Many night, I go dey cry dey tell wetin dey worry my mind.		I spent many nights tearfully entreating about these matters.
Many people dey worry well well when dem no get work.		Being unemployed is a source of anxiety for many.
Many young brothers and sisters dey join build Kingdom Hall and dey take care of am.		Many young brothers and sisters share in the work of building and maintaining Kingdom Halls.
Mek dem get am for mind sey know wetin dey happen to dem and e no go ever forget all the things wey dem dey do to fit serve am.		They can be sure that understands their situation and deeply appreciates everything they do to worship him.
Na God holy spirit dey help us dey patient. So, if God no help us, we no go fit dey patient when we dey face serious wahala.		According to the Bible, patience is a product of holy spirit; without God 's help, imperfect humans cannot be patient to the degree needed.
No! The truth be sey, many people wey sabi Bible matter talk sey, sense dey wetin God tell Adam and Eve.		In fact, a number of Bible scholars comment on the logic and good sense of the command.
No be small work the Bible Students do that time.		It was an outstanding achievement at the time.
One of dem sey: " I want use my life serve God. "		One young man said: " I want to use my life to serve God. "
One thing be sey, dey use love rule us.		One reason is that he rules with love.
One thing wey we go carry for mind be sey, we must let other people choose wetin dem want.		One of the limitations on our freedom is that we must respect the right that others have to make their own decisions in life.
Sex matter wey no clean for God eye.		Sexual immorality.
So, wetin e do?		So, what could he do?
So when Bible talk about people wey " go like enjoyment, " e mean sey " enjoyment for this life " go make this kind people forget theirself. - Luke 8: 14.		The phrase " lovers of pleasures " aptly describes those who are " carried away by. pleasures of this life. " - Luke 8: 14.
That verse talk sey: ' As Jesus see how the people plenty reach, e come pity for dem, because dem confuse and dem no get who go help dem, like sheep wey no get shepherd. '		That verse says: " On seeing the crowds, [ Jesus ] felt pity for them, because they were skinned and thrown about like sheep without a shepherd. "
The governing body send Peter and John wey be their member to go help the brothers wey just become Christian. Peter and John pray for dem so that dem go get holy spirit.		They sent two of their number, Peter and John, to pray for the new believers to receive holy spirit.
The love wey e get for come strong sotey, e kill that thing wey dey make am look things wey dey show naked people.		By prayer and meditation, his love for God overpowered the craving for pornography.
The people for time of Jesus no dey as one because they hate each other and them de do partial.		The people of the land were divided by animosity and prejudice.
This one go help us check the kind love wey we get. And e go still help us see how we go take dey show the kind love wey dey really make person happy.		Doing so will help us evaluate and refine the love that we should show, the kind of love that brings true satisfaction and happiness.
This one na just some things wey and Jesus friend go enjoy.		This is just part of the priceless inheritance for those who make friends in heaven.
We dey use one record wey dem dey call phonograph play wetin Bible talk to people.		To introduce the Bible 's message, we used phonographs.
We know sey no go ever fail us if we trust am. - Matt.		We can be sure that he will never disappoint those hoping in him. - Matt.
We need to still tell am how we dey feel, and beg am to help us. - Phil.		We need to supplicate him, yes, to convey our feelings by praying intensely from the heart. - Phil.
Wetin dem come do?		What was the solution?
Wetin people really need to get freedom?		Contrary to what many think, what is needed for people to enjoy freedom?
Wetin you go do if other people make mistake?		What do you want to do when others make mistakes?
When dem see Jesus dey chop for Matthew house, dem ask im disciples sey: ' Why una teacher dey chop with people wey dey collect tax and people wey dey sin? '		When Pharisees saw Jesus attending a banquet at Matthew 's home, they asked his disciples: " Why does your teacher eat with tax collectors and sinners? "
When people no want hear our preaching ( Check paragraph 6 - 9 )		Opposition to our preaching ( See paragraphs 6 - 9 )
When person believe wetin e dey learn from Bible, dey follow am, and want baptize, all of us dey happy well well.		s rejoice when a Bible student accepts the truth and progresses to the point of water baptism.
When the brother show am how e go take study Bible, e agree.		When the brother offered to show him how to study the Bible, he agreed.
When we dey with our brothers and sisters, we no dey fear because we dey with people wey dey God clean organization.		When we are around our spiritual brothers and sisters, our manner of dress should help to make the congregation a haven of moral chastity.
Which people be the ' chief priest ' wey Bible talk about?		Who were the " chief priests " mentioned in the Bible?
Why we no go let Devil deceive us?		Why must we not let the Devil deceive us?
You fit do this things: Read with free mind, see how you fit follow wetin you don learn; ask yourself question like ' How I fit use am help another person? '		You can do the following: Read with an open mind, seeking lessons that you can apply; ask yourself such questions as ' How can I use this to help others? '
Praise! Because the people use their mind support the work. '		Because of the people 's volunteering, praise!
The original snake, ' wey be Satan the Devil, deceive Eve. E tell Eve sey make e chop fruit from ' the tree of knowledge of good and bad. '		The original serpent, " Satan the Devil, deceived Eve by leading her to believe that eating fruit from " the tree of the knowledge of good and bad " imparted special knowledge that would enable her to decide what was good and what was bad.
Later, e still talk sey: " Na me, person wey no even reach any of the holy ones, dem come give this kind favor, so that I go fit preach the good news about the better better things wey Christ get wey nobody fit understand. "		He later wrote: " To me, a man less than the least of all holy ones, this undeserved kindness was given, so that I should declare to the nations the good news about the unfathomable riches of the Christ. "
Na only apostle John talk for Bible sey " God na love. "		John alone wrote that " God is love. "
So make we no allow fear of problem worry us for mind sotey we forget.		So it is more important than ever that we do not allow ourselves to be paralyzed by such challenges.
E fit still check the Bible verse wey talk sey make we obey and the one wey show sey to preach na command. ( Matt.		She might consider relevant Bible texts, such as obeying God and the command to make disciples.
[CONTENT_REMOVED]		See paragraphs 11 - 14 )
One circuit overseer for Spain, wey im name na Adolfo, remember how im life be before e start to serve.		Adolfo, a circuit overseer in Spain, recalls what his life was like before he came into the truth.
But e no easy.		But it can be a challenge.
Why we dey do am no be just to read many place or prepare to answer question for meeting.		Our aim, though, should not be simply to cover a certain number of pages or solely to prepare comments to participate at meetings.
All Israel people come dey worship together again.		Once again, the Israelites worshipped unitedly.
You go fit handle problem wey dey worry you for mind if you ( 1 ) pray to make e give you better sense and power, and ( 2 ) dey gentle for character and how you dey talk.		As you deal with thorny problems, pray for wisdom, act and speak with mildness, and look to God for strength.
If we dey tell people for our family and our congregation wetin go make dem strong, we dey spoil Satan work.		We can fight the works of the Devil by encouraging members of our family and of the congregation.
But na only because of favor this one fit happen.		However, this has been possible only through 's undeserved kindness.
We fit ask ourself, ' Like Jesus, I dey praise my pikin and other people if dem do better thing instead of to dey put mind for their mistake? '		We might ask ourselves, ' Shouldn 't I imitate Jesus by commending my children and others for what they do well instead of focusing on their shortcomings? '
Wetin problem fit make us do, but wetin we suppose remember?		When problems arise, what might we do, but of what should we remind ourselves?
Wetin we go do so that we go remain when God destroy this wicked world?		How can we be sure that we will remain after this old world is gone?
Word Go Last Forever		The Word of Our God Endures Forever "
But, because all of us get sin for body, we fit get problem when we marry.		said that when he performed the first human marriage.
This thing happen around the time wey Sennacherib, wey be Assyria king, dey plan to attack Jerusalem.		This change occurred when Assyrian King Sennacherib was intending to attack Jerusalem.
After that one, bad religion, government and business no go dey again!		Afterward, there will be no corrupt organizations at all!
Since e get where we fit do reach, ask yourself, ' How I go take use this freedom wey don give me? '		How do these limitations affect the way we use our free will?
Trust and Do Wetin Good "		Trust in and Do What Is Good "
How Jesus take talk to people wey e dey preach to?		How did Jesus approach individuals in his ministry?
Why e no good make we too dey worry ourself because of wetin we need?		Why should we not worry too much about the things we need?
After I pray to about the matter, I come buy something go give am. I still write letter give am sey make e no vex for me.		After praying to about the matter, I bought the sister a small gift and wrote her a card to apologize for my bad attitude.
Another thing be sey, anything wey dey do as King, na because e love us.		Furthermore, 's love characterizes his sovereignty.
Apart from sey we dey read Bible and our book dem, which other thing fit help us like the truth wey dey Bible more more?		Besides reading the Bible and our Bible - based publications, how else can we develop a deep love for Bible truth?
As we dey read and think about Hezekiah example, wetin we fit learn?		How can we benefit from reading the account of Hezekiah and meditating on it?
BEFORE person travel, e dey first sitdown plan how e go waka. No be so? Na so life still be.		YOU young ones will probably agree that before starting a journey, it is wise to plan where you will go.
Because I no get anybody wey get better character like im own. " - Phil.		For I have no one else of a disposition like his. " - Phil.
Because of am, everybody wey dey do wetin God want fit come be part of God family.		The ransom arrangement opens the door for all those of Adam 's children who love righteousness eventually to become part of God 's family.
Because sun dey shine, the shadow of the leaf dem for the big big tree come be like design for brothers clothe.		Through the leafy dome, sunlight cast lacy patterns on the men 's frock coats.
Better Christian no dey talk lie and dem no dey spoil people name.		True Christians avoid both lying to and slandering others.
Bible talk sey, ' na after Abraham don show sey e dey patient, God promise am ' sey e go bless am and e go make im children plenty well well. ( Heb.		The Scriptures tell us that " after Abraham had shown patience, " he obtained the promise that would bless him and multiply his offspring.
But as e be for all your brothers and sisters, e fit dey hard you sometimes to go meeting.		But like all your brothers and sisters, you may find it difficult to be at the meetings regularly.
But e dey sweet our brothers and sisters well well as dem dey see sey we dey try find and wear better cloth wey good for eye.		Yet, fellow believers will likely note and appreciate the results of our sincere efforts to find attractive and appropriate clothing.
But no be only that one go don worry Noah for mind.		Still, he obediently went ahead in faith.
But we continue to dey put God Kingdom as the number one thing for our life. - Matt.		Still, we continued to give priority to Kingdom interests. - Matt.
Dem dey take care of this kind people because dem want make dem well.		They care for their patients because they want to help them.
Dem no too dey put mind for the preaching work.		To some degree, they were spiritually self - sparing.
Devil want deceive us?		the influence of the Devil?
E come sey: ' See, the King don dey rule!		Behold, the King reigns!
E dey talk about person wey do wetin e no suppose do, because e no dey patient or e dey carry body up.		By definition, when someone rashly or impertinently does something that he is not authorized to do, he is acting presumptuously.
E fit still be your pikin.		Or you may be grieving over the loss of a child.
E go still help us see how we go take value our preaching work, and the truth wey we don learn from Bible.		It will also help us to analyze our personal view of the lifesaving ministry that Christians have been assigned and the truths that we have learned over the years.
E good make we know sey all of us dey make mistake.		We have the good sense to realize that both we and our brothers and sisters are imperfect.
E good make we know the things wey fit make am hard us to do wetin like about sex matter.		It is especially important to be on guard when we are confronted by circumstances that could tempt us to compromise 's moral standards.
E still show sey the farmworker know wetin God Law talk for Leviticus and Deuteronomy. The Law sey make dem no treat poor people anyhow.		It also presupposes that the petitioner knew something about the biblical law code, especially the injunctions in Leviticus and Deuteronomy against harsh treatment of the poor.
Even when Jesus suffer well well, e no sin.		Even under the most extreme tests, Jesus never sinned nor broke any of God 's laws.
For example, brother wey don make mistake before, fit dey think sey e no reach to be elder or ministerial.		Perhaps a brother has made mistakes in the past, and now he feels that he is not worthy of being a ministerial servant or an elder.
For our time, the six men wey carry wetin dem take dey scatter things na Jesus army for heaven and na Jesus be their Oga.		In the modern - day fulfillment, the six men with smashing weapons represent Jesus ' heavenly armies with Jesus himself at the head.
Governing Body come tell us sey make we find land buy so that we go build new Bethel wey big well well.		Then the Governing Body asked us to look for property on which to build a new, larger facility.
How Noah example take help us understand wetin e mean to get faith?		How does Noah 's example help us to understand what it means to have faith?
How you think sey papa and mama go feel, if their pikin buy gift for dem from the small pocket money wey dem dey give am?		We may think of a child who gives a gift to his parents from the small allowance they have given him.
If we dey pray, make we no dey beg God for only wetin concern us.		Our prayers, though, should not be limited to asking God for personal help.
If we no want mek wetin we dey read or hear for news spoil the way we dey think, wetin we go do?		How can we make sure that we remain neutral when we watch or read anything in the media?
If we pray and God answer our prayer, e dey make our faith strong more more.		And when our prayers are answered, our faith gets stronger.
If we want solve serious problem, e good make we follow Jesus advice.		To resolve serious problems and disputes, we should of course apply Jesus ' counsel.
Instead, dey pity for people like.		Show compassion.
The Person Wey Dey Mold Us, June		Keep Contending for 's Blessing, Sept.
don give us Bible wey go fit help us to dey strong.		has given us the Bible to strengthen us.
Jesus promise for Bible sey our Papa wey dey heaven go give holy spirit to people wey dey beg am.		Jesus promised that our Father in heaven will not fail to give holy spirit to those asking Him.
Jesus talk sey make dem treat am like person wey no dey serve again and like tax collector.		He should be treated " just as a man of the nations and as a tax collector. "
Jesus talk sey make we ' go make people ' im disciple and make we ' dey teach dem. ' ( Matt.		Jesus said: " Go. make disciples of people. teaching them. "
King Sennacherib for Assyria come dey laugh and e try to make Hezekiah fear. E want make Hezekiah surrender.		The Assyrian King Sennacherib taunted and tried to intimidate Hezekiah into surrendering.
Make we no forget wetin Bible talk, when e sey: ' All of us don sin and we no fit reach the level wey God don set for us. '		We need to bear in mind this basic truth: " All have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. "
Many people no believe sey this kind thing fit happen, but wetin dey Roman law show sey e fit happen.		Different writers have questioned whether this illustration should be considered real, yet ancient Roman legal writings suggest that it should.
More blessing come.		Another reward was on the way, though.
Mouth no fit talk how e pain reach! - John 5: 20; 10: 17.		Words cannot express the pain must have suffered. - John 5: 20; 10: 17.
Na im make some papa and mama dey teach dem with book, record, and video for the two language.		To that end, some parents make use of printed literature, audio recordings, and videos in both languages.
Na only for public holiday and school holiday I dey go house.		I could visit my family only on holidays and during summer vacations.
Na so e still be with the ones wey dey our jw.org website. Some of dem dey the part wey be " Bible Questions Answered " and " Frequently Asked Questions. "		The same is true of many of the articles published on jw.org, such as those in the sections entitled " Bible Questions Answered " and " Frequently Asked Questions. "
Na true sey before the person come back, e don show sey e don repent. But e go continue to do the things wey God like. As e don repent so, na better thing and we dey happy for am.		The person will have to keep on maintaining his integrity to God, but he had to be repentant in order to be reinstated, and we are glad that he repented.
No let your work chop your time, and plan how you go take do more for God work. - w16.07, p.		Cut back on your employment, and plan how to expand your ministry. - w16.07, p.
Old age na another big problem.		Aging is another major concern.
One sister for Australia like wetin e read for December 15, 2013 Watchtower, wey talk about wetin Passover mean.		An Australian sister was moved by a Watchtower study article in the issue of December 15, 2013, that dealt with the meaning of the Passover.
One sister talk sey e dey think about how dem go start to preach as before. And na wetin dey many brothers and sisters mind be that.		One sister echoed the feelings of many who had wondered how they would " start the wheels of active service humming again. "
Or think about one old sister for Canada wey dey 70 years, im name na Paula.		Or consider 70 - year - old Paula in Canada who is severely restricted by spina bifida.
Other people talk sey, to light fire for olden days no be small work.		Others point out, however, that it was not a simple thing to kindle a fire in ancient times.
Our JW Language app fit help you do this one.		The JW Language app is a tool that can help you do that.
Our Papa wey dey heaven don show sey e love im people for olden days when e help dem. E still dey help us make we no too dey worry today.		Our loving heavenly Father came to the aid of his servants in the past, and today he makes it possible for us to gain considerable relief from distress or anxiety.
People for the world dey look all this things as normal thing.		Sadly, such conduct often escalates into violence.
Person no dey learn how to control imself from belle.		Parents know that this quality does not come naturally to young people.
Rome allow Jew people to enjoy many things.		Rome granted the Jews broad rights in the empire.
Since 1919, our king Jesus Christ don dey use this slave help im people sabi wetin dey Bible and to dey do am.		Since 1919, the glorified Jesus Christ has been using that slave to help his followers understand God 's own Book and heed its directives.
So, this one show sey many brothers need to try make dem fit be ministerial servant.		This means that it would be necessary for thousands of brothers to meet the qualifications needed in order to serve as ministerial servants.
So, wetin dey Romans chapter 8 go still help dem, since na for righteous people.		Accordingly, they can benefit from the counsel found in Romans chapter 8 that is given to righteous ones.
So how Solomon take know who really get the pikin? Solomon come talk sey make dem kill the pikin and divide am for dem.		Recall the account of the two prostitutes who argued before Solomon over which one of them was the actual mother of a child.
So make we no forget sey: If we help our brothers and sisters know wetin Bible talk about matter wey dem get, e go show sey we love dem.		Here is an important lesson: We can show helpful interest in others and call attention to Scriptural principles or counsel.
The best way to use our freedom na to dey use our time and power take serve well.		The best way to protect ourselves from misusing our freedom and thus becoming enslaved again by worldly ambitions and desires is to be fully absorbed in spiritual pursuits.
The kind person wey Adam suppose be, na im Jesus be. E no get sin for body, e no leave at all and e do everything wey talk. ( 1 Tim.		He corresponded exactly to all that Adam should have been - a perfect man, absolutely loyal and obedient to God.
The secretary go ask you about your former congregation. This one go help am to fit get your Publisher Record card.		[CONTENT_REMOVED]
The sister come even fit preach to people for where train dey pass for underground, and e give dem tract. Wetin help am?		I even preached and placed tracts in the subway!
They tell the wife make e dey patient.		They encouraged the wife to be patient.
Think about wetin happen the night wey dem want kill Jesus.		Consider what happened the night before Jesus was to be executed.
This one make the shoe strong, and e de help the soldier make e no fall when e de waka.		The design made the footwear both durable and comfortable.
Try learn the new language and use am for meeting ( Check paragraph 16, 17 )		Make an effort to learn the local language and to participate in the meetings ( See paragraphs 16, 17 )
We fit learn from dem how we go take endure, if our work no easy for us.		Their example can teach us how to endure when we have a difficult assignment.
We go do everything wey we fit do to make sure sey we no get problem with our brothers. We go try, even when we feel sey people no understand us, or dem no treat us well.		We do everything in our power to maintain peace with our brothers, even when we feel that we have been misunderstood or treated unfairly.
We still dey do this school for other place. And na brothers wey we train dey teach for this school dem.		That school is continuing at various other locations, with trained field instructors.
Wetin Asa do for Judah?		What decisive actions did Asa take?
Wetin be our 2018 yeartext, and why e make sense?		What is the yeartext for 2018, and why is it appropriate?
Wetin come make im mind come down?		She sought relief by taking the matter to in prayer.
Wetin our baptism dey show?		What do we show by our baptism?
Wetin this place dey tell me about the kind person wey be?		What does this tell me about?
Wetin we dey talk be sey, if we want really thank God for im favor, we no go only comot hand from the sin wey 1 Corinthians 6: 9 - 11 talk about.		The point is that our appreciation for God 's undeserved kindness involves more than avoiding adultery, drunkenness, or other sins that some in Corinth had been guilty of.
When we feel sey dem no treat us or another person well, e fit make us no get faith again. We fit even start to carry shoulder up, and we fit leave.		When we believe that we have personally experienced or observed an injustice, our faith, humility, and loyalty may be tested.
When we read Bible wey dem translate for language wey we sabi, e dey touch us.		Of course, we can benefit from the Bible particularly if it is available in a language that we understand well.
Where Abraham and im family put mind, and how dem take continue to get strong faith?		On what did Abraham and his family members focus their hope, and how did they maintain strong faith?
Which correct example and Jesus don put for ground for us to copy?		How have both God and Jesus Christ set excellent examples with regard to being willing to wait?
Which freedom Jesus promise people, and how we fit get am?		What freedom did Jesus promise, and how can we gain it?
Which kind things we stop to do before we baptize? But wetin fit still dey happen even though sey we don baptize?		What changes did we make before we got baptized, but what weaknesses may we still struggle with?
Which small small things we fit do to encourage person?		What does it take to encourage someone?
Why astrology and fortune - telling no fit help person know wetin go happen for future?		Why are astrology and fortune - telling not keys to knowing the future?
You no go like am if other people treat you well? So try to do things for dem as you go like make other people do for you. ( Matt.		To do so, try to imagine what things you would appreciate if you were a new arrival, and then do those things.
The Greek word wey dem translate as " dey do good " mean to " like stranger or to dey help dem. "		The word " hospitality " in Greek literally means " fondness for, or kindness to, strangers. "
Josiah and other people wey God use lead Israel, follow God Law. Na im make dem ready to change how dem take dey lead God people.		Because Josiah and other faithful leaders were guided by God 's Word, they were willing to adjust and clarify the direction they gave to God 's people.
We fit ask ourself sey, ' E get any human being wey I take like god? I dey try make I no use plenty time dey do things wey no really mean anything? ' - Read Ephesians 5: 15, 16.		We can ask ourselves, ' Do I avoid idolizing humans or using a great deal of valuable time on inconsequential matters? ' - Read Ephesians 5: 15, 16.
How we fit do this one?		How is this possible?
Today, Satan still dey talk sey people dey serve God because of wetin dem want gain from God.		Today, Satan still claims that humans worship God for selfish reasons.
For this other example, wetin the seed and the soil de show?		In this illustration, what is represented by the seed and the soil?
How Bible take help one brother change im character, and wetin come happen?		How did God 's Word help one brother to adjust his attitude, and with what results?
Wetin people talk about this matter of freedom?		What different views do people have regarding the matter of free will?
Use Your Freedom Well		Treasure Your Gift of Free Will
Rehoboam for Make God E Tight Friend		He Could Have Had God 's Favor
But now, don give Jesus Christ power for heaven to take fight this world wey Satan dey control. ( Rev.		But Christ has been empowered in heaven to wage war against Satan 's world.
This word wey Jesus talk help im disciple continue to serve well.		What strong encouragement to continue serving faithfully!
Because dem be ' one flesh, ' people wey don marry no suppose leave each other. Dem suppose allow their love for God and theirself make their marriage strong.		Being " one flesh, " marriage mates were to stick together, allowing love for God and for each other to strengthen their bond.
Question From People Wey Dey Read Our Book		Questions From Readers
But, wetin talk still dey happen for our time.		The words of, however, describe things far greater for our day.
Since holy spirit de produce peace, we must do the things wey holy spirit de direct us to do, so that we go get true peace.		Since true peace is produced by God 's spirit, we must yield to the influence of the holy spirit to develop true peace.
Noah know sey go kill the bad people when the time reach.		He knew that would eventually bring an end to that wicked world.
If to sey you dey that time, wetin you for do?		If you had lived among God 's people back then, how would you have reacted?
After Jesus don go heaven, wetin im apostle dem fit dey think?		After Jesus ' ascension to heaven, what might his apostles have wondered?
After that one, the man listen well, as I explain the kind work wey Witness de do. "		After that, he carefully listened to me as I explained to him the peaceful activities of the. "
All the apostle never die that time, so dem fit take care of God people.		The apostles kept careful watch over the congregations of God 's people as long as they lived.
And Paul even write for Bible about love wey husband and wife dey enjoy.		And Paul wrote about the proper place for passion or intimacy within marriage.
Apart from the Jews wey do bad thing, which other Jews be slave for Babylon? And wetin make dem no fit do everything wey the Law talk?		Besides rebellious Israelites, who were affected by captivity in Babylon, and what limitations were placed on their ability to worship God acceptably?
Apostle Paul picture wey we dey draw for our book na just picture wey artist draw. E no get anything wey science people don see wey show how Paul really be.		The drawings and paintings in our publications are artistic representations, not images based on proven archaeological facts.
As papa and mama, your work na to plant and to put water.		As parents, you can plant and water.
As we dey near the end of this world, mek we get am for mind sey government fit begin dey force us sey mek we join politics or war.		As we get closer to the end, we can expect governments to put more and more pressure on us to take sides.
Because love us, e don give us laws and wetin fit guide us for bible. They go help us train our conscience and see things the way de see - am.		has lovingly provided both laws and principles to help us fine - tune our conscience and view things the way he does.
Because dem dey talk lie about God and dem no dey teach wetin dey Bible.		False religion misrepresents God and distorts the teachings of his Word.
Before we read Bible for person, e good to tell am wetin go make am put mind for wetin we want read.		We also do well to introduce scriptures in a way that engenders respect for the Bible.
Bible talk sey: ' Because of one person [ Adam ] sin, death come dey rule as king ' wey dey control everybody wey come from Adam. ( Rom.		The Bible explains: " By the trespass of the one man [ Adam ] death ruled as king " over Adam 's descendants.
Brother Russell no want make people dey praise am.		Brother Russell did not seek glory from humans.
But, because na only people mistake my papa dey put for mind, small small e come stop to go meeting. This one pain me.		Sadly, my father focused on people 's imperfections and gradually gave up attending Christian meetings.
But, even if we don choose wetin we want do, e get some matter wey we fit think about again.		Yet, sometimes a decision deserves reconsideration.
But e know sey wetin that place talk show sey hope dey for front. Enoch still preach something like that when e talk sey God go destroy bad people.		Moreover, that Edenic promise harmonized with the message proclaimed by Enoch, who also foretold God 's judgment of the wicked.
But na to talk your own mistake and to settle the quarrel so that peace go dey.		It is not to cast part of the blame on your brother but to admit your fault and make peace.
Check the topic " Comfort the Bereaved, as Jesus Did, " wey dey November 1, 2010, Watchtower ( for English ).		See also the article " Comfort the Bereaved, as Jesus Did " in the November 1, 2010, issue of The Watchtower.
Claire wey come from France, talk sey: " Whether we come from Denmark, France, Germany, or Turkey, all of us be like one family.		Whether from Denmark, France, Germany, or Turkey, we were all one family.
Dem be, sex matter wey no clean for God eye and other things wey no clean. - Read Colossians 3: 5 - 9.		Let us consider two of the sinful practices listed by Paul - sexual immorality and uncleanness. - Read Colossians 3: 5 - 9.
Dem believe sey go make dem strong, and no fail dem.		However, rather than give up, they looked to for strength.
Dem listen to Jesus as e dey teach dem how to preach well.		The apostles listened as Jesus taught them how to preach effectively.
E come advise dem sey: ' Use this world property take make friend. ' E talk am because, one day the property no go dey again. So when e happen, and Jesus wey be our friend, ' go fit let us enter place wey go last. '		So he urges them: " Make friends for yourselves by means of the unrighteous riches, so that when such fail, they [ and Jesus ] may receive you into the everlasting dwelling places. "
E continue to study and e later baptize.		She continued her study and later got baptized.
E de make them remember say na people for Rome de control them.		It represented their subjection to Rome.
E fit no be wetin go make other people die.		Not every one of our decisions is a life - and - death matter.
E get war wey dem fight for Spain when I dey 12 years.		When I was 12, a civil war started in Spain.
E no even tell Pharaoh! No wonder, after Joseph forgive im brothers when dem come Egypt, Pharaoh welcome dem and tell dem sey make dem come dey stay Egypt.		Note, however, that there is nothing in the Scriptures to indicate that Joseph ever told anyone - not even Pharaoh - that his brothers were his kidnappers.
E pain me well well when our circuit overseer tell me sey na my village I go preach!		How sad I was when the circuit overseer said that my territory assignment would be right there in the town where I was born!
E still talk other things wey make am praise.		Still, he stated additional reasons to do so.
E talk sey: ' Na trek we trek for some week. We just dey see so so dead body for road.		We walked for weeks, passing hundreds of dead bodies, " recalls Gad, Lije 's younger brother.
E talk this thing when e dey advice the brothers and sisters. E tell dem sey make dem dey always do the correct thing.		He had just urged Christians to ' make straight paths for their feet. '
Even Jesus talk sey na true. - Read Luke 14: 13, 14.		Yes, and this was verified by God 's own Son. - Read Luke 14: 13, 14.
Even people wey dey serve God fit face problem wey go make dem no happy, and their joy fit dey go down small small.		Even servants of God may become discouraged and see their joy slip away.
Even some people wey don dey serve tey tey, don comot from im side.		Even some of God 's longtime servants have gone astray.
For example, Rudolf Graichen wey dem born for Germany for 1925 talk sey e remember the picture of paradise wey dem hang for inside their house.		Consider the example of Rudolf Graichen, who was born in Germany in 1925.
For this topic, we go talk about four things wey don make papa and mama tell their pikin to wait.		In this article, we will consider four concerns that have hindered some Christian parents from helping their children progress to baptism.
How Noah take show sey e believe sey go take care of im family?		In what ways did Noah trust in as his Provider?
How Rahab take show sey e get strong mind?		Describe the courage that Rahab showed.
I go anywhere wey the Master sey make I go, and I no regret am at all.		I have no regrets about following the Master wherever he has directed me.
dey use im Organization dey mold us one one as we take need help.		By means of the Christian congregation, is able to mold us according to our individual needs.
send Moses make e tell Israel people sey make dem dey do three festival every year.		Through Moses, commanded the nation of Israel to appear before at three annual festivals.
understand how e dey do us for body if our person die. E ready to help us. This one dey really make our mind come down!		How comforting it is to know that understands our pain and provides the comfort that we so sorely need!
Jesus talk sey: " Nobody fit near me unless the Father wey send me bring am come. "		Jesus said: " No man can come to me unless the Father, who sent me, draws him. "
Last last, Don come read Matthew 9: 36 and e come tell Peter make e read am by imself.		Finally, Don read Matthew 9: 36 and then asked Peter to read it for himself.
Like other city wey e don go, dem no get place where dem dey gather worship ( synagogue ) for the city.		They do not even have a Jewish synagogue in their city, unlike so many other cities that Paul has visited.
Make anybody wey dey here wey be Im people, go there.		Whoever there is among you of all his people, may his God be with him, and let him go up. "
Make we see the example of one man wey im name na Michael.		Consider the example of a man named Michael.
Make we talk about two people wey do like that.		Consider two individuals who did just that.
Many times, the person wey cause the quarrel go see sey na im fault and e go do wetin e suppose do to settle the matter.		Often, the wrongdoer sees his error and corrects matters.
My children dey see am for my body sey I really love? '		Can my children clearly see that I really love? '
Na 16 years I dey that time.		I was just 16 years old.
Na all of us dey go preaching.		The whole congregation searches for sincere ones.
Na love dey make do everything. So, e want make everybody wey dey serve am get love as their main character.		Since everything does is influenced by love, it is his will that all his worshippers display love as their dominant quality.
Na seven children my papa and mama born, and before I reach 20 years, I don learn how to do farm work		I was one of seven children, and I learned a lot about farming as a youth
Na the same thing dem do for the footnote wey dey New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures - With References. - wp17.4, pp.		A similar approach is found in footnotes in the New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures - With References. - wp17.4, pp.
Na true sey people suffer well well for World War I. But many things wey dem suffer na from government, no be fake religion.		While it is true that the anointed were persecuted during the first world war, the tribulation they experienced was caused mainly by the secular authorities, not by Babylon the Great.
No be just 70 or 80 years Noah take serve God well before the heavy rain fall.		For one thing, Noah did not walk with God in that wicked pre - Flood world for a mere 70 or 80 years - the life span of many today.
ONE brother wey im name na Joshua talk sey: ' From when I small, I dey speak my papa and mama language for house and meeting.		FROM infancy, I spoke my immigrant parents ' language at home and in the congregation, " relates Joshua.
Or for preaching? '		In the ministry? '
Paul advise the brothers for Ephesus sey make dem try well well so that dem go fit ' keep the one mind wey the spirit dey give. '		Paul appealed to the Ephesian Christians that they earnestly endeavor to " maintain the oneness of the spirit. "
People dey praise for this kind place. So when you join build am, you self go happy.		Building them is sacred service that glorifies God and can make you happy.
People from this place dey go where you come from to fit get work! "		To find jobs, people from this place go to where you came from! "
Psalm 119 tell us wetin we need to do to show sey we like wetin we dey learn from Bible.		Note how the inspired writer of Psalm 119 helps us to understand what it means to love Bible truth.
See wetin some of dem talk:		Consider what some have said:
So, na person like David fit tell Solomon sey make e no fear, but make e get strong mind and build the temple!		How appropriate it was later for David to urge Solomon to be courageous and construct the temple!
So e good make we dey study things wey go help us near and Jesus well well. This na one better way to prepare for Memorial.		To prepare for the Memorial, why not choose some study projects that will help you to draw closer to and Jesus?
Sometimes, e dey hard us to choose whether we go help other people or put eye for only wetin we want.		For some, this is an ongoing conflict, or a balancing act.
Sometimes correct dem or even comot dem as leader. ( 1 Sam.		In some cases, disciplined or replaced those leaders.
The overseer open ear well hear all the thing wey the brother talk. Na im e come give the brother small advice from Bible.		After listening sympathetically, the overseer shared Scriptural observations, and the two brothers parted on good terms.
The seed grow sotey e reach to produce fruit. The seed no go produce another plant.		As a result, the seedlike Kingdom message took root and grew, as it were, into a wheat stalk that, in time, was ready to bear fruit.
The truth be sey, no be the same way wey take dey see things many people take dey see am.		Yes, 's view of what is precious and what is not differs from that of most humans.
Then, for that same week, make we still write how many hours we take enjoy ourself with other things like, sport, television, or video game.		Then we could compare that figure to the number of hours we spent that same week on recreational activities, such as participating in sports, enjoying hobbies, watching television, or playing video games.
This example dem go help you know how to leave matter for hand. E go still help you see how to continue to do wetin like, even when you feel sey people no treat you well.		As we discuss these examples, look for lessons that will help you maintain your spiritual focus and preserve your relationship with, especially when you believe that you have experienced injustice.
This one come make dem see sey really love dem because e give dem wetin dem just need that time.		They felt God 's warm, loving care in providing the right spiritual encouragement just when they needed it.
This one dey show sey their faith strong well well. You dey support Governing Body for this work?		Are you one of the other sheep who supports the anointed in this vital work?
This one go help us no fall for Satan trap and we no go copy the bad things wey people for this world dey do.		That spirit fosters a love for violence and immorality.
Today, this one mean sey dem go disfellowship the person.		Today, we would say that he should be disfellowshipped.
Wetin be one part of the new character?		What is one characteristic of the new personality?
Wetin dem fit learn from example?		The lesson?
Wetin you don get for mind sey you go do?		What is your resolve as a contender?
When I reach 14 years, I come want pioneer.		By the time I was 14 years old, I wanted to pioneer.
When the people see Moses, fear come dey catch dem. So dem come use cloth take cover Moses face. ( Ex. 34: 29, 30, 33; 2 Cor.		Upon seeing Moses, the people became fearful, and Moses put a veil over his face.
When the train drop me, I want come enter bus wey go carry me go South Lansing, so I come borrow money from one person wey dey the bus with me.		When I got off the train, a shuttle bus was to take me to South Lansing, and I had to borrow the 25 - cent fare from a fellow passenger.
When we first reach Pine Bluff, one brother call us make we stay with them for their house. Na e be the congregation servant that time.		When we first arrived in Pine Bluff, we moved in with the brother who was the congregation servant at the time.
Which kind people 2 Timothy 3: 2 - 5 dey talk about?		To whom does the list of qualities found at 2 Timothy 3: 2 - 5 apply?
Why e no good make other people choose for us?		Why should others not make decisions for us?
You no go like join the many angel for heaven wey dey sing sey: ' The Lamb wey dem kill, praise, respect, blessing, power, sense, glory and better things suppose be im own. ' - Rev.		Do you not feel moved to join with myriads of heavenly creatures in proclaiming: " The Lamb who was slaughtered is worthy to receive the power and riches and wisdom and strength and honor and glory and blessing. " - Rev.
Publishers for Britain - Make Una Wake Up!! '		Kingdom Publishers in Britain - Wake Up!!
Pull the old character comot with all the things wey una dey do before. ' - COL.		Strip off the old personality with its practices. " - COL.
Na around two years Jesus take teach dem, advise dem, and lead dem.		For some two years, Jesus had taught, encouraged, and led them.
Paul know sey, when the apostles and elders talk anything from Bible, e good make the disciples dey do wetin dem talk.		True, Paul acknowledged the importance of " holding fast the traditions, " or Scripturally based practices, given by the apostles and other men who took the lead.
Bible tell us example of some men and women wey use all their power and mind find.		The Scriptures provide us with fine examples of men and women who put forth concerted effort to seek 's blessing.
For 522 B.C.E., Persia king stop their work.		A crushing blow was dealt in 522 B.C.E. when the Persian king banned further building in Jerusalem.
One of dem na love.		An aspect of that fruitage is love.
Bible sey we go change our sword to wetin person take dey do farm work.		We are to beat our swords into plowshares.
One young girl for India get box wey e dey save money put. E even add the money wey im want take buy toy put for the box.		A young girl in India kept a small money box and gradually added coins, even giving up toys to do so.
E dey pain well well if na brother or sister for congregation do us this kind thing.		When problems arise between spiritual brothers or sisters, the pain can be much deeper.
Wetin you like about Job?		What impresses you about Job 's integrity?
How body dey do us when we see person wey want baptize?		How are we affected when we see newly dedicated ones get baptized?
Wetin we go comot from our mind? ( 1 Pet.		What must we root out of our heart?
So wetin make Paul no tire to preach to Jew people?		First, Paul stated why he kept on preaching to the Jews.
Make we talk about the example of Cain and King Zedekiah.		Consider two examples - Cain and King Zedekiah.
E get one woman wey im husband die. Im name na Gaby. E talk sey: ' My mind dey come down when I cry.		Tears have become the language of my heart, " admits Gaby, whose husband died.
Later, Sennacherib come face Jerusalem.		Then, Sennacherib turned his attention to Jerusalem.
Wetin make Bible no give us law for some kind matter?		Why does the Bible not give us rules for every situation in life?
Bible still warn us make we no separate ourself from our brothers and sisters.		It strongly warns us against isolating ourselves from the congregation.
For person wey don marry to leave im husband or wife go stay im own, no be wetin we go take play.		Separating from one 's marriage partner should not be viewed lightly.
After all, if I tell am everything once, no be im go make am believe me.		After all, conviction isn 't the result of one large chunk of truth.
And make we allow them touch our heart and mind. When we do this one, we go fit correct and direct our conscience.		By using our mind and heart to reason on Bible principles, we correct, direct, and mold our conscience.
Another science person still talk sey the power wey dey come out from the sun for only one second, go reach everybody for this world use for 200,000 years!		Another researcher calculated that the sun " currently radiates. sufficient energy in one second to meet mankind 's needs for 200,000 years "!
Another thing be sey, no dey vex anyhow like many people today. Even if e vex, e no dey let the vex control wetin e go do.		Furthermore, God does not determine his course of action based on a momentary flare - up of anger, the type of emotional outburst that many humans display.
As time dey go, e dey gather some Watchtower wey talk about Memorial, and the love wey and Jesus don show us.		Over the years, he has collected Watchtower articles that particularly discuss the Memorial and the love that and Jesus have shown us.
Before Luigi comot, e write wetin e go show im insurance company ( the company wey go help am repair the motor ).		Luigi made a note of the man 's insurance details and left while the man was still shouting.
Before that time for the two - tribe kingdom, na only people for Judah tribe dey be king and the priest dem dey serve for the temple wey dey Jerusalem for Judah.		The kings in the line of Judah had ruled these two tribes, and the priesthood was associated with them, for the priests served at the temple in Jerusalem.
Before you baptize, you promise sey you go serve am. Just think about how e don take bless you since then.		In contrast to supporting Satan, consider the blessings you have as a dedicated and baptized Christian.
Bible tell us sey problem go full everywhere for last days. E still talk sey many people go sabi make trouble well well. ( 2 Tim.		These critical last days are filled with conflict, and countless people have contentious attitudes.
But, wetin dey im mind na the blessing wey God don give am because im na God friend. ( Lev. 19: 18; Rom.		Instead, he focused his mind and heart on his blessed relationship with.
But if una dey look each other good side, e go help una dey use one mind do things together. E fit no make una be tight friend, but e fit help una near each other.		Your doing so may not turn you into close companions, but it can help to draw you together and increase peace - in you and in the congregation as a whole.
But im husband wey no be Witness come tell am sey make e stay house that day.		However, suppose she plans to go out in the field service on a certain day, but her unbelieving husband wants her to stay home.
But now, see the kind bad thing wey e do!		But then he committed this terrible sin!
But some people wey love God no gree.		However, sincere individuals have stood up to such opposition.
But wetin we go free from?		But freedom from what?
But when katakata dey Cambodia, we come go another place wey dem dey call South Vietnam.		However, the political situation changed, and we had to relocate to South Vietnam.
David get the mind to do wetin want make im servant do. Na better thing be that.		Happily, David dealt with the problem like a man - a spiritual man.
Dem explain wetin this one mean for " Question From People Wey Dey Read Our Book " wey dey July 2016 Watchtower. That place talk sey: " The message wey give Ezekiel show sey hope dey for Israel people, sey dem go be one again when dem go back to the Promise Land.		The " Questions From Readers " published in The Watchtower of July 2016 explained: " gave Ezekiel a message of hope promising the unification of the nation of Israel after its being restored to the Promised Land.
Dem want make you get the better life wey God don promise us.		They will surely want to help you to win the prize of life.
E come go stay with one brother wey be pioneer. E see part - time work do, and e start to pioneer.		He moved in with a pioneer brother, got a part - time job, and began to pioneer.
E dey do me like sey make resurrection just reach so that I go see am again.		I am really looking forward to seeing her again in the resurrection.
E dey try make e fit preach to people wey dey sleep for street because dem no get where to stay.		DON, one of 's in Canada, makes a special effort to talk to people living on the street.
E get one sister wey still dey stay for Kant, im name na Elizabeth Fot.		Elizabeth Fot, a loyal servant of, also lived in Kant.
E give us some advice and after, e leave us make we continue the work.		He offered suggestions and guidance. But after that we were on our own.
E no too tey, dem come get reach 23 Bible student.		Before long, they were conducting 23 Bible studies.
E sey: " As for you, continue go reach the end, and you go rest. "		You will rest. "
E talk say e first vex about the matter.		He said that the incident upset him at first.
E talk sey I dey go Paraguay.		Mine was to Paraguay.
For example, for Jacob well wey near the city of Sychar, Jesus get better result from the fine way wey e take talk to one woman.		For instance, he carried on a lively and fruitful conversation with a woman at Jacob 's well near the city of Sychar.
For many country that time, government no dey too support church again.		In another era, such a bold move would have cost them dearly.
For the apostle dem time, e get one woman wey im name na Dorcas. People know this woman well well. E ' dey always do good and e like to help people wey no get. '		In the first century, a Christian woman named Dorcas was well - known for her " good deeds and gifts of mercy " - sacrifices she made to help others.
For the last topic, we learn sey na be the only Person wey fit do anything wey e want, and wey get right to talk whether something good or bad. And na im make everything.		As we learned in the preceding article, the Creator of all things, is the only Person who enjoys absolute and unlimited freedom.
For there, Arthur see some brothers wey confuse, dem no know wetin to do.		There Arthur found several brothers in a quandary, peering down on the speaker.
For there, we see many things wey we never see before, and we learn new things for there.		Many of the things we saw and experienced in the United States were new and strange to us.
For this two topic we learn how young people go fit use their power to think take talk about their faith and make am strong.		In these two articles, we will see how young ones can learn to use their thinking ability to strengthen their faith and to defend it.
From 1931, Brother Diehl start to work for Bethel wey dey where dem dey call Bern, for Switzerland.		Beginning in 1931, Brother Diehl served faithfully at the Bethel home in Bern, Switzerland.
Get am for mind sey people go make you vex. This na because e no get who no dey make mistake.		Because all humans are imperfect, sooner or later someone is going to say or do something that will offend you.
Holy spirit help Jesus.		Holy spirit empowered Jesus.
How dey feel about wetin you dey do to show sey you support am?		How does feel about your efforts to uphold his sovereignty?
How Jesus take train people to sabi preach and teach?		How did Jesus train proclaimers of the good news?
How Peter feel about wetin happen? E sey: ' I happy well well sey we get brothers wey dem don train to fit do more work, and wey dey do the work well. '		When Peter was asked how he felt about his change of assignment, he replied, " I am so pleased that there are brothers who have been trained to accept greater responsibility and who are doing so well in caring for the work. "
How things be for Zechariah time?		At the close of Zechariah 's seventh vision, what was the situation of the Jews in Jerusalem?
How we go take get am?		How can we gain that reward?
How we go take get the kind faith wey Daniel get?		How to cultivate faith like Daniel 's.
I baptize for March 1957. This one happen nine months after I go meeting for my first time.		Within nine months of that first meeting, I got baptized - in March of 1957.
If na so your pikin be, you fit try learn some language wey people dey speak for the new area?		Parents, if that describes your children, can you learn at least some of the local language?
If that kind thing happen, we no go fit serve again and we no go enter paradise.		Were that to happen, we would lose not only the privilege of doing God 's will but also the hope of life in God 's new world.
If we really want show sey we thank God for im favor wey make am forgive our sin, we go do wetin e like.		It really comes down to how much we appreciate the undeserved kindness God has shown by forgiving us.
Instead, e do wetin save im life and im family own. - Josh.		Rather, she acted in a way that in the end preserved her and her family. - Josh.
dey control imself well well.		exercises the quality of self - control perfectly, for he is perfect in all that he does.
dey happy to teach im people well well!		How loves to educate his people!
don really give us freedom wey go make us choose wetin we want.		has given us the gift of free will and with it true freedom.
Kevin born two girls, one na five years and the other one na eight years and dem dey another language congregation. Kevin don do wetin go make dem understand the things wey dem dey learn for meeting.		Kevin, a father of two girls, aged five and eight, has taken measures to compensate for their lack of understanding at meetings held in a foreign language.
Kindness na another character wey God spirit de help us get. We go talk about - am for another Watchtower for front.		The quality of kindness will be considered in a future article in this series on the fruitage of God 's holy spirit.
Many people for Noah time dey marry plenty wife, but Noah and im three pikin marry one one wife.		Although Noah and his three sons each had only one wife, polygamy was practiced in patriarchal times.
Many years before World War I, Charles Taze Russell and the brothers wey dey with am come know sey church people no dey teach the truth wey dey Bible.		In the decades leading up to World War I, Charles Taze Russell and his associates realized that the organizations of Christendom were not teaching Bible truth.
Mature Christian no go do wetin go worry the conscience of other people ( Check paragraph 11, 12 )		A mature Christian is sensitive to the conscience of others ( See paragraphs 11, 12 )
Na im make young people for congregation no dey carry expo to fit pass exam.		Thus, Christian youths do not cheat to obtain good grades at school.
Na only Noah and im family dey serve. Things wey dey happen that time fit don make Noah tire.		With violence and sexual perversion rampant all around him, Noah could have become discouraged.
Na so dem do me everyday for two months.		This daily ritual continued for two months.
Na so e just do. "		He did just so. "
Na true sey better example fit help pikin do well, but that one no mean sey the pikin go serve as e dey grow.		It was sobering to think that while a fine example is a powerful influence for molding children, it is no guarantee that they will grow up to serve.
Nathan Knorr, wey dey direct the work wey people dey do that time, come Puerto Rico.		Nathan Knorr, who was then taking the lead among 's, came to Puerto Rico.
No tell yourself sey ' nothing dey happen. '		You cannot become overconfident.
One sister wey im name na Elvira remember wetin happen when e get problem with im friend, Giuliana.		A sister named Elvira remembers vividly when she had a difference with her dear friend Giuliana: " When she told me that she was hurt because of what I had done, " Elvira recalls, " I felt awful.
Other people dey leave me waka their own.		Everyone else just leaves me alone.
Peter come start to study Bible with am.		Peter began a Bible study with him.
Plant for different different land and eat wetin e produce.		Plant gardens and eat their fruit.
Satan wey be papa of lie know sey Bible fit help us.		Of course, the great propagandist, Satan, knows this.
So, for matter wey no serious reach this one, you no think sey we suppose let our brothers use their freedom choose wetin dem want? - 1 Cor.		Therefore, should we not also respect our brother 's right to make personal decisions in matters of lesser importance? - 1 Cor.
Some brothers for the congregation dey drag theirself go court.		Some brothers were taking fellow believers to court.
Some circuit overseer talk sey e dey worry dem for mind when dem meet this kind young people.		In most cases, these young ones attend congregation meetings and share in the ministry.
Some of us wey don dey old, fit still get family member wey old pass us to care for.		Others, although well along in years themselves, are caring for elderly relatives.
Sometimes two elders fit arrange to go visit sister wey need help make e fit continue to serve well.		At times, two elders may meet with a Christian woman who is in need of Scriptural help and encouragement.
TODAY people sabi Witness as the people wey dey always preach about God Kingdom, even people wey no like us.		WHETHER people agree with us or bitterly oppose us, few would deny that as a group 's are well - known for their preaching activities.
That one mean sey e want make people wey dey worship am dey do things well.		Surely, then, we should expect that wants his worshippers to be well - organized.
The brother tell me sey make I first learn handwork so that I fit use am dey take care of myself when I start to pioneer.		He suggested that I try to get some kind of skill to support me in the pioneer service.
The next month, we start our work.		The following month, we began our Bethel service.
The priest talk sey: " To show sey dem no get sense, all of dem just dey talk one thing: ' Good news about God Kingdom. ' "		The priest said: " They were all so stupid that they gave the same answer: ' The good news of the Kingdom. ' "
The question wey Paul ask dem, make dem think.		Paul asked them a sobering question: " Why not rather let yourselves be wronged? "
The sister sey: " I come dey look for excuse for our book dem so that I go fit spend time with my daughter and im pikin.		The mother admits: " I looked for loopholes in our publications so that I could spend time with my daughter and my granddaughter. "
The video come when we really need am!		The video came right on time!
This advice dey wetin e teach for Sermon on the Mount.		He included this advice in the Sermon on the Mount.
This one fit make some angels and people dey feel sey, wetin Devil talk about God correct.		This could lead some to wonder whether there might be validity to the Devil 's claim.
This two topic go help us see sey, to support as King na serious matter. We go still see how we go take show sey na we dey support.		These articles will help us to appreciate the importance of 's sovereignty and to understand how we can uphold it.
We come later learn for our new place sey if we want preach, e better to go area wey get another priest.		We soon learned that when we arrived in a new area, it was best to cycle far away from our place of lodging, preaching only where people had a different priest.
We dey give wetin we suppose give am.		We give to what he deserves.
We fit do this one when we dey pray, when we dey sing and when we dey talk about am for meeting.		We can do this at the meetings when we pray to, sing to him, and speak about him.
We fit don see sey some sabi shame well well and dey like dey their own.		We may have noticed that new immigrants are sometimes shy and stay by themselves.
We go dey do wetin organization talk because no want make we dey praise people pass as we suppose praise dem.		It also keeps us in line with 's organization, which refrains from giving humans - whether believers or unbelievers - excessive or undue honor.
We go show sey we dey do like God when we no dey condemn wetin other people believe.		We imitate him when we show respect for what others believe.
We go still talk about wetin the Bible Student do wey show sey dem want really comot hand from fake religion. And we go know the time wey God people comot hand from fake religion.		We will also consider the firm stand the Bible Students took regarding Babylon the Great, and we will learn when the Babylonian captivity ended.
We happy sey small small, Federico come stand well for side again. After, dem come make am pioneer and ministerial servant.		Happily, in time Federico regained his balance and was later reappointed as a pioneer and a ministerial servant.
We no dey look where dem come from, whether dem go school, who dem be for the area or whether dem get money before we go respect or praise dem.		We honor these brothers regardless of their nationality, education, social standing, or financial status.
We want - am too, na e make us de hope say people go listen to our message and get life. ( Ezek.		Like, we dearly wish that people would respond to the message and " keep living. "
Wetin dem write for under the picture na: " Dem full everywhere for street. "		Below the picture was the caption: " Invasion of the streets. "
When I dey young, I no too dey think about why God make human being, or think about how tomorrow go be.		As a young man, I gave little thought to the purpose of life or to the future.
When I submit am, dem come invite me for September 19, 1955 to come dey serve for Bethel wey dey Brooklyn. Na 17 years I dey that time.		Not long thereafter, when I was 17 years old, I received an invitation to start serving at Brooklyn Bethel on September 19, 1955.
When their motor spoil for road, dem leave am for there. But Brother Keltie use camel continue im preaching even though e get fake leg wey dem use wood do!		When their small car broke down and had to be abandoned, Brother Keltie - who had a wooden leg - continued his preaching trip, but now using a camel!
When we do the thing wey Jesus talk, we go leave the place in peace so that we go fit help the person next time.		When we follow Jesus ' advice, we can leave with our peace intact and with the possibility of helping the person in the future.
to support work?		for specific projects?
Which other people you know wey dey do this work for this last days?		What other religious group has continued to preach the good news during these momentous last days?
Why? Because for many years, some of God prophet don warn the Jews sey if dem continue to do wetin God no like, Babylon people go come attack dem.		For years, God 's prophets had warned the Jews that if they continued to disregard God 's Law, they would be delivered into the hands of the Babylonians.
Why E Good Make We Dey Go Meeting?		Why Should We Meet Together for Worship?
Why Joseph need to wait for, and which better character e get?		Why did Joseph need patience, and what fine attitude did he have?
Why e good make we wear love like cloth for body?		Why is it important that we clothe ourselves with love?
Why e good to choose well?		How important is our ability to choose wisely?
You know the answer, especially if e don happen to you before.		The answer may be obvious if we have done this in times past.
You remember wetin Rabshakeh talk to make God people fear?		Do you remember the propaganda used by the Assyrian envoy, the Rabshakeh, against God 's people?
You think sey Jephthah no think the matter before e promise?		Was it a thoughtless vow that Jephthah had made?
where dem don preach reach?		the scope of their work?
After don talk how dem go build the tabernacle, ' Moses do everything wey tell am make e do.		After had given instructions on how to set up the tabernacle, " Moses did according to all that had commanded him.
But, some people wey dey follow Jesus that time stop to get love.		Nevertheless, some of Jesus ' followers in the first century did allow their love to grow cold.
E go sofri go meet elders and tell dem the bad thing wey e don do. And this elders ready to help am. - Jas.		Genuine love moves Christians who have committed serious sins to speak to the elders so that the elders can provide the needed help. - Jas.
God and Jesus don tell us for Bible wetin dem get for mind for us and things wey go help us no sleep.		Through the pages of the Bible, God and Christ tell us what they have in store for us in the immediate future and how we can keep on the watch.
How Jesus take show sey wetin Moses talk na the law wey matter pass?		How did Jesus emphasize the import of Moses ' words?
How some people don gain because dem dey think about wetin dem read?		How have some benefited from meditating on what they study?
Wetin go make us de happy as Jesus?		How will Jesus ' joy become ours?
Wetin go help us do wetin dey Romans 15: 5?		What will help us to apply Romans 15: 5?
Make we see other way to take show sey we hold tight.		Consider further ways we can prove our loyalty to God.
When we put this one for mind, e go make us carry body down, help us remember sey no be everything we know, and help us change mind about the matter.		Our awareness of this undeniable truth will prompt us to be humble, to recognize our limitations, and to adjust our view of the matter.
Una Comot From Darkness		Called Out of Darkness
Some brothers and sisters don learn another language because dem want help people wey pack come their country. ( 1 Cor.		Out of compassion for immigrants, many endeavor to learn a new language.
And e no fit run from the suffer wey go come because of wetin e do.		And he could not escape the consequences of his mistakes.
And this kind thing fit cause problem for people wey just marry.		Relationships with in - laws may become strained and cause tribulation for the newlyweds.
Another brother wey im name na Roger, join new congregation for far place. The place far pass 1,000 miles ( 1,600 km ) from im former place. The brother sey: " If you want enjoy your new congregation, make you dey go preaching everytime. Na this one go help you pass for the new congregation.		Roger, who moved to an area over 1,000 miles ( over 1,600 km ) away from where he lived, says: " The best way to adapt to a new congregation is to go in field service as often as possible.
Another thing be sey, e fit make the court wey dey Jerusalem sey dem no want Christian again.		Also, the Sanhedrin could declare Christianity an apostasy from Judaism.
Because Bible tell us sey give us freedom to fit choose wetin we want.		It reveals that created us with free will; that is, the capacity and freedom to make our own intelligent choices.
Because e no leave, bless am.		His loyalty to was rewarded.
Because me, your God, dey hold your right hand, the Person wey dey tell you sey, " No fear.		For I, your God, am grasping your right hand, the One saying to you, ' Do not be afraid.
Brothers and sisters for congregation try for our body well well.		Brothers and sisters in the congregation were of great help.
But, because e want do wetin im papa tell am, e use cloth tie the hand come go where im papa send am.		Nevertheless, wanting to obey his father, he tied a rag around his bleeding finger and set out on foot to deliver the envelope.
But, how you think sey dem go feel if comot all this bad condition?		Ah, but take away all those negative factors - what relief!
But Bible tell us where we suppose obey dem reach.		Of course, our honor and support have reasonable, Scriptural limits.
But I no ever get plan for army work. So for 1956 when the two years wey I suppose to serve for army finish, they allow me go.		I had no desire to stay in the military service, so after finishing my service time of two years, I was honorably discharged in 1956.
But as we dey near the end of this wicked world, e go dey hard more more for us to separate ourself from politics.		But the closer we get to the end of Satan 's system, the more difficult it will be for us to remain neutral.
But e come do something wey other people see. This thing wey e do go help the people continue to build the temple.		Now he participates in a prophetic act as an encouragement to those who are restoring God 's temple.
But how we go take do am?		How can we do that?
But later, I go another place go preach. Before one month, I start to study Bible with different people.		At first, I couldn 't start any Bible studies, but later I moved to another territory, and within a month I started several studies.
But make we get am for mind sey, congregation no go comot eye for this kind matter even if e no dey too happen.		It might take quite some time - a year or more - for the sinner to give proof of true repentance.
But the different different government today don mek people hate theirself because dem dey talk sey na their country better pass.		But human governments have divided people by claiming that their nation is the best.
But when dem don near the Promise Land, dem no come get faith again.		Yet, when the people neared the Promised Land, they showed a lack of faith.
But when we preach to dem, some dey get the hope sey life wey no go end dey come for front!		They came there for health reasons, but some left with the hope of everlasting life!
Daniel na another person wey we know well well for the part for Bible wey be Hebrew Scriptures.		Daniel is another faithful man whom we know about from the Hebrew Scriptures.
Dem build three for one side of River Jordan, and three for the other side.		commanded Israel to distribute the cities evenly on both sides of the Jordan River.
Dem dey do wetin dem dey teach. "		They practice what they preach.
Don come read three verse for Bible wey e feel sey go touch Peter mind.		Don tactfully used three scriptures in an effort to reach Peter 's heart.
E baptize for 2009. The next year, e come be regular pioneer.		Rose was baptized in 2009, and the next year, she began to serve as a regular pioneer.
E dey patient until dem kill am for wetin e no do.		Yet, he was mild and patient right up to his wrongful execution.
E don reach three years wey my wife die, and last year my pikin die for accident. "		My wife died three years ago, and last year my son was killed in an accident. "
E don tey wey people know this one.		This principle has long been understood.
E fit be sey e want comot imself from the suffer wey God sey Abraham children go suffer.		He may have wanted to avoid the suffering foretold to come on Abraham 's offspring.
E sey: " We see some animal wey dey stay inside water before before, but wey no dey again.		We saw a display of ancient sea creatures called ammonoids and trilobites, " says the father.
E sey: ' When I never marry, na me dey choose wetin I go do and dey take care of myself. '		Marriage was an adjustment for me as I learned to rely on my husband.
England National Health Service talk sey, the IUD wey get plenty copper dey work pass the one wey get small copper.		A guide from England 's National Health Service reports: " IUDs with more copper are more than 99 % effective.
Even if our people no gree come serve, we fit still continue to serve well. And we go happy sey we dey make happy.		Even if our relatives never accept the truth, we can have the joy that comes from pleasing by our faithful course.
Even when e hard to see people study with for your area, wetin fit still make you happy?		How can you share in the joy of making disciples even in a challenging territory?
For country wey money no too dey, wetin many people like na to find money to take buy big phone, okada or small land.		In developing countries, many may simply want to have enough money to buy a cell phone, a motorbike, or a small plot of land.
For example, me and my husband don help 136 people learn about, and we dey there when dem baptize.		For example, Walter and I were able to be present for the baptisms of 136 of our Bible students.
For example, one book wey them de call Daily Life in Palestine at the Time of Christ talk about - am.		The book Daily Life in Palestine at the Time of Christ notes that " the religious sects into which the Jews were divided corresponded more or less to what we term political parties. "
For example, when Jesus heal one person wey bend and wey no fit stand for 18 years, e tell am sey: ' Woman, you don free from your sickness. '		For example, when healing a disabled person who had been bent double for 18 years, he said: " Woman, you are released from your weakness. "
For many years, plenty brothers dey come my house and dem try help me but I no gree. "		Over the years, brothers visited me and tried to reason with me, but I refused their help. "
For the other side, Jesus Christ our King and the people wey dey follow am rule, plus many many angel stand dey look you.		On the other side are, our King Jesus Christ, the anointed who have been resurrected, and thousands of angels.
Gain Well From the Things Wey Dey Give Us, May		Do Not Let the Faults of Others Stumble You, June
How prayer dey show sey get favor?		How is prayer related to God 's undeserved kindness?
How you take dey prepare to fit preach to other people?		How do you prepare to give a witness?
If we dey dress well, wetin e go make people know about us?		What effect should our dress and grooming have on others?
If we get that kind mind, we no dey do wetin Paul talk. E sey make we " dey take love bear wetin people do " us.		To think that way is contrary to Paul 's counsel that we should be " putting up with one another in love. "
Instead, from small pikin, dem go start to teach dem wetin good and wetin no good for eye. And dem go dey show the children better example.		They want to cultivate in their child from infancy a heartfelt appreciation for 's elevated moral standards.
give Adam and Eve one simple law wey go show whether dem know where dem suppose do reach.		gave Adam and Eve a simple law that served to test whether they recognized the limits of their freedom.
no force Israel people make dem respect stranger, but e tell dem wetin touch their mind.		Rather than order the Israelites to respect foreigners, appealed to their empathy.
no still stop wetin dem do Joseph, but e no leave am.		But did God ever abandon Joseph?
Jesus na the Head of the congregation. E talk sey: ' Where two or three people gather because of me, I dey there with dem. '		Jesus, the Head of the congregation, said: " Where there are two or three gathered together in my name, there I am in their midst. "
Make Bible, God spirit, and everything wey you dey do, help your children get sense wey go give dem life.		May 's Word, his spirit, and your efforts as a parent help your children to become " wise for salvation. "
Make we talk wetin go help us continue to be like soft clay for God hand. We go learn three things wey go help us: ( 1 ) How we go take run from character wey fit make us get strong head?		Let us focus on how we can remain like soft clay in God 's hands, considering three areas: ( 1 ) How can we avoid traits that might harden us against God 's counsel?
Many things wey concern us dey Romans chapter 6 and 8.		In Romans chapters 6 and 8, we find vital information related to our life as Christians.
Me and Arthur Matthews know each other for 1946.		Arthur Matthews and I met in 1946.
Me and my wife ready our mind sey we no go gather money and property so that fit use us do im work for anywhere.		Angie and I were determined to keep our life simple so that we could be ready to serve wherever we were needed.
NA 1926 dem born me for one small village wey dem dey call Kartsa, for Greece. We be eight children for our family and na me be number seven.		I ENTERED this world the seventh of eight children born to hardworking parents in Kartsa, a small village in Greece. The year was 1926.
Na God help Jehoshaphat; e go still help you.		God helped Jehoshaphat, and he will also help you.
Na brother Don Adams be the person wey collect my Bethel form for 1955 convention.		By coincidence, Don was the brother who had accepted my Bethel application at the 1955 convention.
Na im make talk sey Ahab, im wife and children go die the way Naboth and im children die. - 1 Ki.		Ahab, his wife, and his sons would suffer the same fate as did Naboth and his sons. - 1 Ki.
Na the light from the machine wey dem dey call projector wey we dey use show the film, dey draw the insect come.		They were attracted by the projector light and got stuck in the projector.
Na true sey e good to talk well when we dey talk to our people wey no dey serve. But na wetin person do dey carry weight pass wetin e talk.		Although mild speech is helpful in dealing with opposing relatives, our good conduct can speak even louder.
Na true sey your pikin don promise to use im life serve before e baptize.		Of course, a youth who is baptized has made a solemn dedication to.
No. E sey: " For where I dey work, I dey meet many lawyers.		At my workplace in the bank, I now have much contact with lawyers.
No be only one way dem fit take translate this word for English.		Asher can be rendered in a number of ways.
No forget sey Jesus sacrifice show sey and Jesus really love us well well, and no love pass this one. send im Son come die for us. And Jesus use im mind come die for us.		Remember that the ransom sacrifice of Christ involved the two greatest expressions of love - the love that showed in giving his Son in our behalf, and the love that Jesus showed by willingly offering up his life for us.
Noah know sey God go do wetin e talk, na this one make am build the ark wey save im and im family. - Heb.		Noah 's faith in that warning moved him to build the ark, thus saving his household. - Heb.
One day, one visitor come ask the boy sey, " You no know sey na the small coins wey dem make with gold better pass the other one?		One day, a visitor asked the boy, " Don 't you know that the gold coin is twice as valuable as the silver one? "
One sister for Australia suffer many things when e small.		A sister in Australia was deeply affected by the use of scriptures at a Christian meeting.
Other people own na how to take care of their family and their body. Dem still dey think about wetin dem go use their life do.		Others consider their big issue to be family, health, or personal accomplishments.
Our boat no too get space for person to sleep, cook, or wash cloth, but we dey manage am.		Our small vessel had little space for sleeping, cooking, or washing clothes, but we managed.
Paul tell Hebrew Christians sey: " Make una make the hand and leg wey don weak, strong. And make una no stop to dey make straight road for una leg, so that wetin don weak no go break comot but e go heal. " ( Heb.		Paul counseled Hebrew Christians: " Strengthen the hands that hang down and the feeble knees, and keep making straight paths for your feet, so that what is lame may not be put out of joint but, rather, may be healed. "
People wey come visit us go enjoy am if we show dem sey we really love dem.		Loving interest can make any occasion a delight.
Prayer na another thing wey help people for Bible time get strong faith.		Prayer also played a vital part in keeping the faith of pre - Christian strong.
Sascha, one brother wey come from Germany still travel go Turkey. E don marry and e dey around 40 years.		Sascha, a married brother in his early 40 ' s who moved from Germany, says: " Every time I am in the ministry, I meet people who are hearing the truth for the very first time.
Small small, we go come start to dey think like Jesus. ( Rom.		With the spirit 's help, we can gradually begin to think more and more as Christ did.
Small time, when Jesus don start to rule for one thousand years, they go put them for prison and they no go fit do us anything. After, they go destroy them. ( Rev.		Soon, during the Thousand Year Reign of Christ, they will be confined to a state of complete inactivity, after which they will be destroyed.
So, for January 1, 1952 when I dey 15 years, I start to pioneer.		I began pioneering on January 1, 1952, when I was 15.
So I ask my mama say: " How Jesus go be the Son and still be the Father? "		Curious, I asked my mom: " How can Jesus be both the Son and the Father at the same time? "
The Watch Tower still talk sey because of this war, the Bible Student dem no come fit dey preach like before, especially for Germany and France.		Because of the hostilities, The Watch Tower reported: " [ Kingdom ] service has been to some extent hindered, especially in Germany and France. "
The love wey that Bible verse dey talk about, na love wey dey make person think of wetin go only favor am.		It is a distorted, selfish love.
The problem fit be about marriage, work, or sickness.		Such tests may have to do with marriage, health issues, or employment.
The sister still continue to do personal Bible study.		She also kept busy in her personal study of the Bible.
The sister wey teach am Bible, talk sey: " E no hard Tessie to learn wetin dey Bible, but e no do wetin e dey learn - even congregation meeting e no dey come!		Tessie took in knowledge of Bible truth with relative ease, " said the sister who studied with her. " However, she made no significant spiritual progress - not even attending Christian meetings!
They fit even ask say, ' Wetin I go do so that I go get life? '		Perhaps they even wonder, ' What must I do to get saved? '
This better work dey make ' people sabi ' and ' na sign wey no go ever end. ' ( Isa.		This wonderful work is bringing " fame to, an everlasting sign that will never perish. "
This kind people know where dem suppose do reach?		Is that being modest, however?
This kind thing happen for the apostle time.		This happened in the first century.
This one dey mek our mind strong sey wetin promise go happen for future.		This can help us feel even more sure that 's promises for the future will come true.
To do research, na to use the different different book and other things wey we get take find answer to this kind question:		Using tools available to us, we might look for such information as the following:
We dey thank for the many brothers and sisters wey dey use all their power build where we dey worship!		How thankful we are for the many construction volunteers who work on projects tirelessly!
We fit no see am as anything, but e fit cause wahala. '		That difference may seem unimportant; yet, it can lead to serious problems. "
We go see how take show us better example.		Let us consider 's perfect example.
We know sey song na one better way wey we take dey worship.		For 's people, singing has always been an integral part of worship.
We no be like wey fit do anything wey e want.		We do not have the absolute freedom that has.
Wetin David fit do: David let help am. How?		What David could do: David allowed to help him recover spiritually.
Wetin go do about bad condition?		What will do about distressful conditions?
Wetin Jesus talk about money?		What counsel did Jesus give about money?
Wetin Paul talk show sey, e no good make person dey feel sey nothing dey happen.		Paul 's deep concern shows that there is no room for complacency.
Wetin fit make Christians today stop to love God?		What dangers are faced by Christ 's followers today?
Wetin make Jeremiah like God word, and how the word touch am reach?		What helped Jeremiah to love Scriptural truth, and how did it affect him?
Wetin we go talk about for this topic?		What will we consider in this article?
When I start, I no too see money and the work tire me.		In the beginning, I struggled financially and got discouraged.
When the sister don comot for where dem dey, the brother wey no like the way the sister greet am, come dey talk bad about the sister.		When the two brothers were alone, the offended brother began to criticize the sister for what she had said.
Which kind stress dey many work today?		What stresses exist in the modern workplace?
Which other thing de help them?		But they do more than draw on God 's power.
Which wahala the brothers and sisters for apostle time face?		What conditions did first - century Christians face?
Who the advice for Ephesians 4: 23, 24 concern?		To whom does the counsel found at Ephesians 4: 23, 24 apply?
Why e be sey sometimes people dey do wetin dey pain us?		Why may others at times hurt our feelings?
Why e good make we ' dey check ' whether we dey for the faith? And how we go take do am?		Why should we " keep testing " whether we are in the faith, and how can we do so?
Yes, we no go ever see dem again! - Ps.		They will be gone - forever! - Ps.
Make we dey think about how we go take help each other., make we dey encourage ourself, especially as the day don dey near. " - HEB.		Let us consider one another., encouraging one another, and all the more so as you see the day drawing near. " - HEB.
Preach well about the good news of God favor. " - ACTS 20: 24.		Bear thorough witness to the good news of the undeserved kindness of God. " - ACTS 20: 24.
Na the same thing dey Watchtower Wey Dey Talk About Kingdom.		And they were echoing the message contained in The Watchtower Announcing 's Kingdom.
As dem hear everything wey Barnabas talk, the congregation wey dey Jerusalem come dey do things with Paul.		On hearing Barnabas ' testimony, the Jerusalem congregation accepted Paul.
Person wey dey carry body down suppose remember sey ' go judge everything wey people dey do, even the one wey dem hide do, whether e good or bad. ' ( Eccl.		Furthermore, a humble person remembers that " the true God will judge every deed, including every hidden thing, as to whether it is good or bad. "
Sometimes, person fit dey think sey e better pass other people because e go school, e get money, or who e be for organization. But make we no get that kind character.		We can show honor to others by not thinking too much of ourselves because of our education, material possessions, or privileges in 's service.
All the time wey Jesus take preach for this earth, God holy spirit help am. E help am fit do miracle and tell people wetin God send am.		For the rest of Jesus ' earthly ministry, God 's holy spirit empowered Jesus to perform miracles and to speak with divine authority.
Make elders try copy Jesus example when dem want give correction.		Elders would do well to imitate Christ 's example when they need to give counsel.
Wetin we fit do to help people wey no too strong?		What practical things can we do to support the weak?
Wetin you fit do to near more more?		What can you do to cultivate spirituality?
Which promise dey important pass?		What is the most important vow we will ever make?
Another thing be sey, people wey dey lead for Babylon and Egypt no follow the Law wey God give Israel people about how person go dey clean. ( Num.		Moreover, Babylonian and Egyptian leaders did not follow the scientifically sound practices on hygiene that God gave to Israel.
You No Think Sey You Need to Do Well?		Do You See the Need to Make Spiritual Progress?
Story About People Life - Poor Beginning But Rich Ending		Life Story - A Poor Start - A Rich Ending
But we know sey God no fit lie. So, we trust am sey if we repent, e go help us bear any problem wey come from the mistake, even if na we cause am. - Read Isaiah 1: 18, 19; Acts 3: 19.		But we take God at his word, trusting that if we are repentant, will support us through difficult times - even when those difficulties are of our own making. - Read Isaiah 1: 18, 19; Acts 3: 19.
E still show sey God dey always do wetin e promise.		That record also shows that God always keeps his promises.
Papa and Mama, Help Your Children Become Jesus Disciple!		Parents, Are You Helping Your Child Progress to Baptism?
Aaron and Hur come use their sense. Dem come ' bring one big stone for [ Moses ], e come sit down on top.		Acting with decisiveness, Aaron and Hur " took a stone and put it under [ Moses ], and he sat on it.
And make we still go tell other people to join us praise Jah.		and to encourage others to do the same?
Another time, e come sey: ' No tire to dey pray. ' ( 1 Thess.		Later he wrote: " Persevere in prayer. "
Antonio come talk sey: ' I come dey try to always dey around am.		Antonio explains: " I spent more time with Federico.
Bible talk for here sey know about all the good things wey person do to help poor person.		Is this scripture implying that takes note of every act of kindness performed in behalf of lowly ones?
But Bible tell us sey " as e see am sey e don get power, e come begin carry shoulder up. Na this one cause wahala for am. E do wetin im God hate, as e enter inside temple go dey burn incense ontop the altar wey dem take dey burn incense. "		However, " the Bible states, " as soon as he was strong, his heart became haughty to his own ruin, and he acted unfaithfully against his God by entering the temple of to burn incense on the altar of incense. "
But brothers and sisters wey serve well from 1914 go reach 1918 talk sey all of dem together do everything wey dem fit do to make sure sey dem continue to preach.		However, faithful brothers and sisters who served God during the 1914 - 1918 period later made it clear that as a whole the Lord 's people did everything they could to keep the preaching work going.
Dey enjoy the things wey make.		Enjoy 's creation.
E fit dey think about how im tomorrow go be.		He might have been thinking about what the future held for him.
E go happen quick quick, even before person open eye close am, when the last trumpet blow. " - 1 Cor.		They " will all be changed, in a moment, in the blink of an eye, during the last trumpet. " - 1 Cor.
Even with im suffer, e still talk better thing after God correct am.		Despite his ordeal, Job finally began to speak appreciatively.
First do wetin go help your pikin near before you think about wetin go favor you.		Put your child 's friendship with ahead of your own interests.
Five hundred years before dem born Jesus, this kind thing worry Nehemiah. Some of the pikin wey Jew people wey come back from Babylon born, no sabi speak Hebrew language.		In the fifth century B.C.E., Nehemiah showed concern when he learned that some children among the Jews who had returned from Babylon could not speak the Hebrew language.
For example, e don put the congregation for im Son hand. And Jesus don choose the slave wey dem fit trust to dey teach us.		For example, he has placed the congregation under the care of his Son, who appointed a " faithful steward " to provide timely spiritual food.
For many place for the Hebrew part of Bible, where God name suppose dey, na " LORD " wey dem write for capital letter dem take replace am.		It used " " in a few verses, and it used the word " LORD " in capital letters in other verses in the Hebrew Scriptures where the divine name originally occurred.
For the family study, we dey act drama of things wey fit happen for school.		We always had a regular family study, during which we would act out situations that could happen at school.
From the Law wey God give Israel people, wetin we fit learn about the kind cloth wey we suppose wear?		What can we learn about clothing from God 's Law to the Israelites?
Go use am do sacrifice. " ( Gen.		Imagine the feelings that such a command would stir up.
God allow Adam and Eve to choose whether dem go obey am or dem no go obey am.		Adam and Eve did have the freedom to choose whether they would obey God or not.
How Bible fit help us continue to dey clean, get peace and one mind?		How does the counsel in God 's Word help us to maintain cleanness, peace, and unity?
How David take show sey e be like soft clay and wetin we learn?		In what ways did David prove to be like soft clay, and how can we imitate him?
How I dey behave if person advice me?		How do I react when faced with temptations?
How Papa and mama fit teach their pikin to respect with the way dem dey dress?		How can parents train their children to glorify God by their manner of dress?
How you see am? No be small work dey help im people do and na im we go thank! - Ps.		What an amazing work is being accomplished, all to 's praise and glory! - Ps.
I still no sure sey love me, but I come dey think about Jesus sacrifice.		I still doubted that could love me, but I began thinking about Jesus ' ransom sacrifice.
If you dey go preaching, meeting and do family worship e go really help your children.		Do not minimize the good effect of your being regular in the field service, in attending meetings, and in conducting family worship.
Jacob continue to fight and e no tire to serve because e love. Everything about dey make am happy, and e use all im mind believe wetin promise, sey e go bless all the people wey go come from am.		The patriarch Jacob struggled and persevered because he loved, appreciated spiritual things, and had complete faith in 's promise to bless his offspring.
Jesus still show us better example for this matter.		Again, Jesus set a wonderful example.
Josiah go fight war with King Necho wey dey rule Egypt. But the king no gree fight am.		Josiah " went out against " King Necho of Egypt, although that king told Josiah that he had no dispute with him.
Later, and Jacob pikin dem ( Israel people ) enter one agreement.		Later, brought the descendants of Jacob ( Israel ) into a covenant relationship with Him.
Law wey dey help person know where e fit do reach, dey protect am.		Limitations put on people 's freedom can protect them.
Malcom still talk sey: ' Pray make you fit dey do well for work as your power reach.		Malcolm 's advice? " Pray to be as productive and as active in 's service as you can be.
Many people believe sey things don spoil pass as e be before.		In addition, many people believe that global corruption has worsened.
Na because wetin dey this brochure and video don help many people for their marriage.		Because these tools highlight the godly principles that have helped many to strengthen their marriage.
Na wetin happen to the person wey write Psalm 73 be that.		Consider the experience of the writer of Psalm 73.
No where for Bible talk sey the people argue with Peter when e talk sey David " see am before e happen and e talk about how God " go resurrect the Messiah wey dey come.		And the record does not say that any of them disputed Peter 's statement that David " foresaw and spoke about the resurrection " of the coming Messiah.
No where for Bible wey show sey stop to use Peter do Im work.		There is no indication in the Scriptures that he lost his privileges.
One day, some Israel people carry one man go bury.		Some Israelites were on their way to bury a man.
One of the mountain show sey na be the King wey high pass and wey go rule forever.		One mountain represents 's universal and eternal rulership.
Other people feel sey if dem no fit direct the work, the young men no go fit.		Others worry about losing control, convinced that younger ones cannot do things as well.
Paul write sey: ' To dey put mind for the flesh dey bring death. '		Paul wrote: " Setting the mind on the flesh means death. "
People go dey gossip or spoil people name.		And there would be slanderers, people who voice damaging reports meant to destroy the good reputation of others.
People still dey talk like this when dem give dem Bible or our book for their language. When our brothers dey for wahala, dem dey happy well well when organization help dem. Many of our brothers don see the better thing wey dey metropolitan witnessing, or when dem preach for open place.		Many express similar appreciation after receiving the Bible and other publications translated into their own language, after benefiting from relief work, or after seeing the results of metropolitan and public witnessing in their communities.
Remember say no go ever leave us. - Heb.		Remember, he will never abandon us. - Heb.
Romans 5: 12 fit dey among the one wey go first come your mind?		Would Romans 5: 12 be high on your list?
Ruth beg make dem let am gather wetin remain from the farm even though sey law allow am. When Boaz hear am, e sey make Ruth even collect from the one wey dem don gather. - Read Ruth 2: 5 - 7, 15, 16.		On hearing that she had asked permission to glean - even though she was within her full right to do so - Boaz generously allowed her to glean even among the sheaves. - Read Ruth 2: 5 - 7, 15, 16.
Some of my friends begin take bad drugs, some even stop school.		Some of my ' friends ' began taking drugs; others dropped out of school.
Stephen and im wife come start to study Bible with Witness.		Then, the began to study the Bible with the couple.
Story about people wey use better mind wait for, dey Bible.		The first article explains why we should be willing to wait on.
THEIR BIBLE STUDENT		BIBLE STUDIES
Tell us.		Consider an example.
The Bible Students know sey no be only to just tell their family people and other people sey dem no dey support fake religion again.		The Bible Students understood that it was not enough for them to inform relatives, close friends, and church members of their stand on false religion.
The four of us go sing the song. Then the people go come join us sing and their sweet voice dey rhyme with our own.		As the four of us did our best to sing the tunes, the people joined in, their voices harmonizing beautifully.
The name of the book wey dem take study with us na From Paradise Lost to Paradise Regained.		They read to us the book From Paradise Lost to Paradise Regained.
The policeman no come know wetin e go talk again.		He did not know what to say to that.
The second thing be sey, the things wey dey teach us now, dey help us ready to live life for paradise.		Second, by educating us now, is preparing us for life in the new world.
The verse na Isaiah 1: 18. For there, talk sey: ' Make una come make we settle the matter wey we get.		The verse was Isaiah 1: 18, where is quoted as saying: ' Come, now, you people, and let us set matters straight between us.
The woman na Witness, im name na Apun Mambetsadykova.		Her name was Apun Mambetsadykova, and she was one of 's.
Think about many things wey don change for our organization since the last ten years. Get am for mind sey na dey make all this change happen.		Think about the many organizational changes that have been made during the past decade - and bear in mind that is behind such developments.
Thirteen years later, one brother come give talk for Katharina congregation. For where Katharina and im family sitdown, dem come hear as dem call the brother wey want give the talk.		Imagine her joy when 13 years later she was sitting in the Kingdom Hall with her family and Hans was introduced as the visiting speaker!
This one dey help us fit preach about the better things wey God Kingdom go do.		This helps us to preach the good news about God 's Kingdom.
This one fit make you ask say: ' When Rehoboam obey, na because e really repent and want make happy? Or, na because other people talk say make e do - am? ' ( 2 Chron.		You might wonder: ' When Rehoboam did respond to divine correction, was he acting primarily under the influence of others rather than out of heartfelt repentance and a desire to please God? '
This school matter dey enter young people eye, when dem want choose wetin dem go use their life do.		Faced with choices that can deeply affect their entire life course, young people may find all of this very enticing.
Today, na around 67,000 Witness dey the Worldwide Order of Special Full - Time Servants of 's.		Currently, there are some 67,000 members of the Worldwide Order of Special Full - Time Servants of 's.
We dey help dem build their house and Kingdom Hall wey scatter. I spend two years with the group.		Later, I spent two years with a hurricane relief team, rebuilding Kingdom Halls and homes for the brothers.
Wetin don give us to help us think well?		How have we as God 's people been equipped to use our perceptive powers?
Wetin be that? Na the sense wey God dey give, wey ' original gold ' no fit buy. - Job 28: 12, 15.		It is divine wisdom, which " cannot be bought with pure gold. " - Job 28: 12, 15.
Wetin one brother see sey dey miss for im life, and wetin e come do about am? E GET one brother wey baptize when e dey 15 years.		What did one brother find lacking with regard to his spiritual condition, and what did he do about it?
Wetin show sey no dey force us do wetin e want, even if e get the power to do am?		Though having authority over the clay, how does show respect for our free will?
When God dey talk about wetin go happen to im people, e talk sey: ' I go make dem one, like sheep wey dey one place. '		Foretelling the future condition of his people, God declared: " In unity I will place them, like sheep in the pen. "
When problem dey, dem go leave the marriage.		When the relationship becomes strained, they just give up and walk out on their marriage mate.
Which one you remember?		Who are especially worthy of being respected and honored, and why?
You don ever ask yourself: ' Wetin dey make dem go another country?		Have you ever asked yourself: ' What motivates them to serve abroad?
You go let their mistake make you stop to go meeting and even stop to serve?		Will you let their mistakes stumble you, so that you abandon and his people, including those in the local congregation?
Young people get the kind power wey person need to fit do more for God work.		Young people have the strength needed to accomplish much in 's service.
Your condition fit no be like sister Bianca or sister Paula own.		Your situation may be quite different from that of Bianca or of Paula.
Guard Your Heart " don change to " We Guard Our Hearts. "		The change of the title " Guard Your Heart " to " We Guard Our Hearts " was most considerate.
You Love Me Pass This Things? '		You Can Remain Modest Under Test, Jan.
The truth be sey, before papa and mama go fit teach their pikin, dem go first sabi and like wetin dey Bible well well and dey do wetin e talk.		Of course, to succeed, the parents must first impress the truth on their own hearts, making the truth their way of life.
Na for 70 C.E. " day " reach, when Rome people come destroy Jerusalem.		That day of arrived in 70 C.E. when the Romans executed 's judgment on Jerusalem.
[CONTENT_REMOVED]		See paragraph 12 )
Plenty people no even know say them de do wetin Satan want.		Out of ignorance, many work in harmony with Satan 's purpose.
Prophet Zephaniah talk sey " day don near!		The prophet Zephaniah said: " The great day of is near!
E still talk to one tax collector wey im name na Matthew Levi.		He also spoke with Matthew Levi, a tax collector.
E dey fear sey the brothers wey come from Jerusalem wey be Jew no go happy sey e dey chop with people wey no be Jew.		Despite his firsthand knowledge of 's thinking on the matter, Peter feared the opinion of the circumcised Jewish members of the congregation in Jerusalem.
[CONTENT_REMOVED]		Read. )
For example, wetin we go do if the person wey we dey work for tell us mek we work pass the time wey we suppose close, sotey we come dey miss meeting?		For example, what will we do if our employer expects us to work so much that we cannot be at our meetings regularly?
Wetin go help us?		How can we cope?
Even when people do wetin for make Jesus vex, e still get better mind for dem and e love dem.		Even when his patience was tested, Jesus was kind and loving.
Na true sey e no get time wey dem put sey after e pass, congregation go bring back the person wey do this kind thing.		Though no set time must pass before that person 's reinstatement, such treachery, which seldom occurs among those associated with God 's people, cannot be ignored.
Young People - No Fear, Fight Satan and Win!		Young Ones - Stand Firm Against the Devil
Na true sey because of how weather and season dey change, e fit affect wetin we dey wear.		It is understandable that different climates and the change of seasons influence what we wear.
Na im make Paul tell Christian dem sey make dem ' no dey plan to do the bad things wey their body like. ' This one fit make dem no put mind for things wey concern God. - Rom.		This is why Paul told Christians that they should " not be planning ahead for the desires of the flesh, " which induce spiritual sleep. - Rom.
E good make all of us dey think of wetin we fit do to help other people.		Each of us should be alert to observe " the need " that others have.
True true, ' na gift wey God give ' sey ' make dem fit use faith save ' us.		Indeed, it is " God 's gift " that we be " saved through faith. "
Person wey dey think like Jesus dey put God Kingdom as the number one thing for im life.		A spiritual person pursues spiritually oriented goals.
Abraham no see everything wey promise am before e die. Even with that one, Abraham happy as e wait for. But make you think am.		Abraham was happy to wait, even though he did not see the complete fulfillment of the promise in his day.
And make elders arrange their time so that dem fit help people wey dem disfellowship wey fit don dey comot hand for their bad life.		In addition, the congregation elders arrange to visit and offer help to disfellowshipped ones in the congregation territory who may have left their past practice of sin.
Another way na to follow the advice wey dem dey give us from Bible.		Another way is to heed their Scriptural counsel.
Another young person wey use im life serve God na Timothy. You fit still copy im example.		In the first century, the young man Timothy focused on spiritual goals, and you can too.
Around 1980, Witness people come dey study Bible with dem.		About 1980, they started to study the Bible with 's.
Arthur talk sey: ' I just dey listen to everything wey dem dey talk. '		I was hanging on to every word, " Arthur said.
As Paul and Silas dey sing praise to, wetin dem no think sey go happen, begin happen.		As Paul and Silas sing songs of praise, a series of totally unexpected events occurs.
Because of how you take help am, your Bible student fit come dey enjoy im personal Bible study.		As a result of such help, very likely your Bible student will soon be delighting in his personal study of God 's Word.
Because of this one, problem fit happen sometimes. If e happen, make we do wetin Jesus talk. E talk sey: ' Make you go settle with your brother. ' ( Matt.		Because of this, problems may occasionally arise, and if that happens, we have been taught to follow Jesus ' advice: " Make your peace with your brother. "
Bible show sey na Jesus be the cornerstone for the congregation no be Peter. ( 1 Pet. 2: 4 - 8 ) - w15 - E 12 / 1, pp.		The Bible shows that rather than Peter having primacy, Jesus was to be the cornerstone of the congregation. - w15 12 / 1, pp.
Body go do us like one person wey talk for Bible sey: ' One day for inside your temple better pass one thousand days for another place. ' ( Ps.		We come to feel as did the psalmist: " A day in your courtyards is better than a thousand anywhere else! "
Brother John Barr wey be Governing Body member before e die, talk something about wetin dey Luke 13: 24. E sey, ' For person faith to strong, e need to dey study well and do wetin e learn.		In commenting on Luke 13: 24, John Barr, who served as a member of the Governing Body, pointed out some years ago, " Many fail because they are not diligent enough to grow mighty. "
But e want still help am handle one serious problem.		John also wanted to help him deal with a serious problem.
But no be just to tell your pikin wetin e go do, and wetin e no go do.		However, more is involved than simply telling your children what is right and what is wrong.
But the question be sey, you dey sure sey you go dey for that new world?		The question is whether we will be there, whether we will gain that reward. Do you have confidence that you will?
Dem dey pursue brothers comot from where dem dey stay. And the Catholic priests for there dey use people take cause trouble for brothers.		Brothers were being put out of their accommodations and facing mob violence instigated by the priests.
Dem send am go Chile as missionary, and for there e still come be circuit overseer.		He was assigned as a missionary to Chile, where he again served as a circuit overseer.
Dem suppose don love theirself well well sotey dem want live their life together as husband and wife.		They should also have come to love each other so much that they want to unite their lives in the marital bond.
Dey think about some of the verse wey go help you mek you no put hand for politics or war.		Meditate on verses that will help you to remain neutral.
E dey make us happy when we see as dey answer our prayer! - Heb.		Our hearts are touched when we see how answers our united prayers! - Heb.
E dey your mind to preach to people every month so that dem go come serve?		Is it your goal each month to teach the Word of God to others, trying to move their heart to serve God?
E get one kind sickness wey the name na Down syndrome. * And we know say e no go live long.		He was severely affected with Down syndrome * and was not expected to live long.
E go still help other people do wetin Bible talk. - Gal.		More important, by means of these qualities, we honor and help others to heed the Bible 's counsel. - Gal.
E just be like sey God use one big eraser take clean wetin divide different different country. "		It was as if God had rubbed out all the national borders with a big eraser, " said Claire from France.
E know wetin people need to fit dey live life every day.		He was well - aware of people 's day - to - day needs.
E no ever do the bad things again.		Indeed, he never repeated those serious sins.
E no tey, dem come tell us make we come Kingdom Ministry School. That time, the School na one month and e dey where dem dey call South Lansing, for New York.		No sooner had we made that adjustment than we were invited to attend Kingdom Ministry School, at that time a one - month course of instruction at South Lansing, New York.
E still good make papa and mama dey use sense know wetin dey their pikin mind and make dem try know the kind person wey their pikin be. - w15 - E 11 / 15, pp.		It is also important that the parents show insight and strive to understand their teenagers. - w15 11 / 15, pp.
E still sey: ' No be every time e easy, but we don near each other well well as husband and wife because we dey do things the way want. '		It has not always been easy, but we have drawn so much closer as a couple by doing things 's way. "
Even the Pharisee and Sadducee people know sey Jesus come from King David family. Dem no fit argue am.		In fact, the truth about Jesus ' genealogy was so well - known that even the Pharisees and Sadducees could not deny it.
Even though Jesus know sey dem fit kill am if e gree sey na im be Messiah, e no lie. - Matt.		Jesus honestly identified himself as the Messiah, even though his truthful admission could allow the Sanhedrin to claim that he was a blasphemer and could lead to his execution. - Matt.
Everything wey Satan dey control - politics, fake religion, and business - no go dey again.		Satan 's entire system - political, religious, and commercial - is destined to fail.
For all the example, we go see advice for Bible wey fit help us choose well.		In each example, we will identify a Scriptural principle that can help us make a wise decision.
For some country, person fit use jw.org or another website from the branch office.		In some branches this is also possible using jw.org or another designated website.
For this last days, don give im people the work to preach the ' good news ' about im Kingdom ' for everywhere for this world make everybody fit hear. ' ( Matt.		In this time of the end, 's people have been commissioned to preach " this good news of the Kingdom. in all the inhabited earth for a witness to all the nations. "
God promise Abraham sey e go give am pikin, but Abraham need to show sey e get faith and sey e fit wait. ( Heb.		He promised Abraham a son, but the patriarch had to exercise faith and patience.
How Memorial fit help you do wetin go make all of us continue to get one mind?		motivate us to promote unity?
How e be sey wetin we choose fit affect us and other people?		How can our decisions affect us and others?
How husband and wife fit show sey dem like how dey rule?		What are some ways in which married couples can show that they uphold 's sovereignty?
How we fit follow wetin Jesus talk about tax?		What balanced position on taxation did Jesus recommend?
I come finally tell dem sey: " Okay.		Finally, I told them: " All right.
I don do am and I don really gain.		I have done so and have truly benefited.
If we dey do like that, we fit miss something wey fit help us.		If so, we could be depriving ourselves of information that would be of great benefit to us.
If you be papa or mama wey pack go another country, wetin you fit do to help your children ' dey follow the truth '?		If you are an immigrant parent, how can you give your children the best possible opportunity to become spiritual children who " go on walking in the truth "?
If you de read Bible everyday, you go understand the laws for Bible more. And you go grow for the way you de understand the things wey they fit guide us for inside Bible.		Doing such reading can give you greater insight into 's laws and principles and a deeper understanding of God 's Word.
If you dey live for any of this country, Moses example fit help you.		If you find yourself in either situation, consider the example of Moses.
Instead, na because sey dem dey argue about whether John Mark don reach to follow dem do missionary work. - Acts 15: 36 - 40.		Rather, it reflected their differing opinions of John Mark 's qualifications for missionary service. - Acts 15: 36 - 40.
don really bless me. As I dey serve for Bethel, I don see how people don take plenty for Philippines.		From my vantage point at Bethel, I have been blessed to witness outstanding spiritual growth in the Philippines.
promise us sey im wey be " the God wey like truth go bless anybody wey dey find blessing for the earth. "		assures us that " anyone who seeks a blessing for himself in the earth will be blessed by the God of truth. "
Job na another better example. Even though sey e need person wey go encourage am, e still show other people how to encourage person.		Although in need of consolation himself, Job gave his three " troublesome comforters " a lesson in giving encouragement.
LAST year, dem make many brothers elder and ministerial servant for organization.		WORLDWIDE last year, thousands of men were appointed as elders and ministerial servants among 's.
Lucas really happy as e fit preach well.		Luca was thrilled to be able to give a good witness.
Many people that time want make things change. But no be this one make Paul write those letter wey e write.		However, the objective of his ministry was not social or political reform, the very thing people of that day were seeking.
My papa no mind am, e continue to dey give magazine to people wey gather.		He just kept on offering the magazines to the crowd that had gathered.
My wife dey use one machine wey dem dey call mimeograph take dey make our book dem and the Watchtower wey we go study for meeting.		Mary 's assignment was to type Watchtower study articles and other literature on stencils that served to produce mimeographed copies.
Na true sey the truth wey we don learn from Bible dey sweet us.		Have empathy for unbelieving relatives.
Noah still explain the only thing wey God talk wey go save dem.		Everything on the earth will perish. "
Noma talk sey: " When I see the oyibo brother happy to sitdown ontop one rubber crate, the thing surprise me. "		Noma said, " I was impressed that he was willing to sit close to the floor on a plastic crate. "
One sister for central Europe talk say: " Before, if person come from another country and e religion no be my own, I no de like that person at all. "		A sister living in central Europe admits: " I was prejudiced, and I hated anyone who was of a different nationality or who had a religion that was different from mine. "
One time wey we go preach for unassigned territory, na train we use travel go one town wey dey for where mountain dey. We rent one room for inside one house.		During a witnessing campaign in unassigned territory, we traveled by train to a town in the mountains and rented a room in a boardinghouse.
One year after e marry Patsy one sister wey be missionary like am, their pikin come die.		A year after he married Patsy, a fellow missionary, their baby daughter died.
Paul preach well well and im example show us how we go dey preach today. Paul still show sey the favor wey God show am, no be ' for nothing. '		In his zeal to perform his ministry, Paul set an excellent example for modern - day Christians and demonstrated that God 's undeserved kindness had not been shown to him " in vain. "
Person wey know where e suppose do reach, dey always dress and behave well; e dey respect imself and other people.		Modesty helps us always to dress, groom, and comport ourselves in a decent and respectable manner.
Peter remember how the man take surprise because e know the answer. But Peter talk sey: ' The man no surprise reach me!		The rabbi, " Peter recalls, " was surprised that I knew the answer - but not as surprised as I was!
Remember sey: If we want mek God bless us, mek we dey endure. - Romans 5: 3 - 5; James 1: 12.		Remember: To have God 's approval, we must endure. - Romans 5: 3 - 5; James 1: 12.
Send me! '		Send me! "
Since Bible no talk sey the city dem get another meaning, we go only talk about wetin we fit learn from dem for this topic and the next one.		Because the Scriptures are silent regarding any antitypical significance of the cities of refuge, this article and the next one emphasize instead the lessons Christians can learn from this arrangement.
The gold small pass one stick of matches head and e scarce pass original diamond.		It is smaller than a match head and rarer than a high - quality diamond.
This brother visit different different congregation. E arrange how to print our book and how to share am.		Not only did Nikolai visit congregations but he also organized the duplication and distribution of our literature.
This one show say their conscience worry them.		This indicates that their conscience was bothering them.
This one show sey Shebna go don carry body down. E no vex or carry wetin happen for mind.		Might this not suggest that Shebna did not give way to bitterness and resentment but instead humbly accepted his lesser responsibilities?
This sister hold tight.		She earned her living as a seamstress.
We no fit by ourself stop to do mistake, comot sin and death; and we no fit control other people life because everybody get freedom to do wetin e want do. ( 1 Ki.		On our own, we can never eliminate imperfection, sin, and death; neither can we control other people, for all have free will.
Wetin Nathan go do?		What would Nathan do?
Wetin make Martha get this kind mind? E don learn about people wey God resurrect before Jesus time.		Martha was convinced because of miracles that she likely learned about even before Jesus ' ministry began.
Wetin show sey na the correct mind Witness people take dey preach?		How have 's shown that they engage in the preaching work with the right motive?
What of bad things? Na true sey some kind bad things don reduce for some place. But other bad things like " yahoo - yahoo, " people wey dey bomb other people, and man wey dey beat im wife, just dey worse everyday.		Crime: Although certain types of crime have decreased in some places, other types, such as cybercrime, domestic violence, and terrorism are increasing at an alarming rate.
When I dey inside one ship wey the name na Queen Elizabeth, de go Gilead School		Heading to Gilead School aboard the Queen Elizabeth
When papa and mama see sey their pikin don give im life to and e don baptize, e dey give dem joy. We want make all of una wey be papa and mama get this kind joy.		May you parents experience the joy and satisfaction that result from seeing your children become dedicated, baptized servants of.
When we dey preach for street around 1950		Street witnessing in the early 1950 ' s
When we no fear to talk about for court, we dey praise am		s name is magnified when we make a defense of our faith
When we reach Florida for November 1962, black people and oyibo people for there no dey do things together. And e surprise us sey e don affect the brothers for there. Black people and oyibo people come dey do their meeting separate.		When we arrived in Florida in November 1962, we were surprised to find that local sentiments about integration meant that black brothers held their meetings separately from white brothers and that they preached in separate areas.
Which hope we get?		What hope can we maintain?
Which other problem people wey don marry fit get?		How is losing a marriage mate in death a distinct trial?
You don take time read the Watchtower wey never tey wey we print?		Have you carefully read the recent issues of The Watchtower?
Young people wey stand well for side dey show sey dem mature. Dem no dey allow their mate to control dem, and dem no still dey allow their body to control dem.		Young ones who are reasonably mature spiritually are not " tossed about as by waves and carried here and there " by their desires or by pressure from their peers.
Your example na another thing wey go help your children believe wetin Bible talk.		Of course, your example is also important when it comes to building conviction.
Tell brothers and sisters wey be missionary or pioneer about wetin you want do.		Talk with experienced missionaries and pioneers.
How this one affect Paul?		How did that adverse reaction from the Jews affect Paul?
Wetin we go learn for this topic?		What will we examine?
Look for better time to remind your pikin all this things.		At an appropriate time and in a kind manner, remind your child of those facts.
For person to get the mind to sey " No vex for wetin I do you, " show sey e no dey carry shoulder up.		A Christian couple, therefore, should try to settle any issue between them before the day ends.
Na true sey many of us must work to feed ourself and our family, and we fit still get other work wey we dey do for congregation.		Of course, most of us lead very busy lives.
So, make the love wey we get for Jesus, make us dey think, talk, and do things wey go show sey na God Kingdom be number one thing for us instead of other things for life. - Phil.		Thus, our heartfelt love for Jesus will move us to focus our thoughts, speech, and actions primarily on Kingdom activities rather than on the everyday affairs of life. - Phil.
How joy de help us for our preaching work?		How does joy affect our ministry?
Wetin some people dey talk when dem hear sey God get organization?		How do some react to the thought that God has an organization?
After, Rehoboam begin do bad thing again.		Later in life he returned to doing what was bad.
But God pity David because of the ' clean and better mind ' wey David take serve am. ( 1 Ki.		Yet, God showed mercy to this man who overall walked before " with integrity of heart. "
Our God Na One '		Our God Is One "
The circuit wey I serve cover plenty area for central Luzon. Luzon na the island wey big pass for Philippines.		I was assigned to a circuit that covered a huge area of central Luzon, the largest island in the Philippines.
Paul talk say: " Person wey e get love don do everything wey the law talk. "		Paul said: " Love is the law 's fulfillment. "
Gain Well From The Things Wey Dey Give Us		Benefit Fully From 's Provisions
E no get how e be, we dey meet this kind people everyday.		However, we cannot avoid all contact with such people.
We dey see the kind problem wey people dey cause for theirself because dem no dey control theirself.		And think of the sad results reaped by others who since then have failed to exercise this important quality.
Get Faith and Dey Obey Like Noah, Daniel, and Job		Imitate the Faith and Obedience of Noah, Daniel, and Job
For example, if person for school or for where we dey work want make we be im boyfriend or girlfriend, wetin we go do? We go reject am? We go show sey we want do wetin e talk? ( Prov.		For example, when someone on the job or at school flirts with us, do we see this as an opportunity to " take pleasure in [ 's ] ways " by rejecting such advances?
APOSTLE Paul talk true when e sey: ' The favor wey God show me no be for nothing. '		THE apostle Paul could honestly say: " [ God 's ] undeserved kindness to me was not in vain. "
After the assembly, organization come send me go do another work for Philippines.		After the assembly, I returned to an assignment in the Philippines.
All of us like truth, and truth dey Bible.		As Christians, we cherish and embrace truth.
And dem need to try follow wetin dem plan to do for.		And it means reaching out for spiritual goals.
As e be when Jesus dey this earth, the partial for inside people their heart fit really strong, and e no easy to remove - am.		Feelings of prejudice in our time can be deeply ingrained, just as they were in Jesus ' day.
Bible tell us story about people wey no stop to serve even when other people do wetin bad well well.		The Bible provides us with accounts of servants of God who remained loyal to and his people despite the serious faults of others around them.
But I still de learn how to treat other people the way de treat them. But the struggle no de always easy.		But I am still learning to overcome prejudice toward others, and it is not always easy.
But before the Kingdom come, make we do wetin we fit do to help people wey dey face this problem.		In the meantime, we do what we can to assist those in need.
But the time wey we spend for this place no be waste.		But it was worth it.
But the way this world go take end really different from that thief own.		And yet, there is a key difference between this world 's end and that of the prisoner.
Check this two topic " No One Can Serve Two Masters " and " Be of Good Courage - Is Your Helper! "		See the articles " No One Can Serve Two Masters " and " Be of Good Courage - Is Your Helper! "
Dem allow dem use their own law. '		They could regulate life within their own communities by their law. "
Dem fit come dey look us as if we no dey sure of wetin we dey talk.		Then they may look at us as if we aren 't proud of who we are.
Dem go dey praise pastor, politician, people wey dey do sports, act film, or musician like sey dem be god.		That is why people tend to idolize certain men or women rather than just show them appropriate honor and respect.
Dem go make your faith strong like tree wey the root deep well well for ground, wey fake religion breeze no go fit fall. - Jer.		They can help your faith to become like a tree with deep roots. In that way your faith will enable you to withstand what might be like the winds of false teachings. - Jer.
Dey carry body down, no dey make am hard for dem to talk to you, and dey show sey you value any advice wey dem give you.		Be humble, approachable, and thankful.
E clear sey the advice wey dey Bible help Christians for Corinth and other place to continue to dey clean, get peace and one mind for congregation.		It is clear that the inspired counsel in God 's own Book helped first - century Christians in Corinth and elsewhere to maintain cleanness, peace, and unity in their congregations.
E come still talk sey, no be just some people wey church train suppose to preach. Na all the member for church.		The pope then went on to say that this mission " cannot be left to a group of ' specialists ' but must involve the responsibility of all the members of the People of God. "
E know wetin e don suffer for people hand.		Certainly not.
E no easy to train dem because we be deaf and dem no be deaf. So we make sure sey dem learn sign - language so that we fit follow dem talk well and teach dem wetin dey Bible.		This was challenging, but we made sure that they knew sign language so that we could communicate well and teach them the truth.
E no tey, Job lose im property. Im servant and ten children wey e love well well die.		In a short time, Job lost his servants, his means of livelihood, and his ten beloved children.
E sey: ' I sabi shame well well and e no easy for me to talk to person wey I no know.		She recalls: " I was very timid and found it difficult to talk to strangers.
Even when Daniel don old, Bible tell us sey e still dey study God Word well well.		Even in his old age, we find him poring over the Scriptures.
Everybody wey dey serve suppose get faith for Jesus sacrifice. Na that sacrifice go make do wetin e get for mind for human being.		Christ 's ransom sacrifice is fundamental to our faith and to the outworking of 's original purpose for mankind.
For Jerusalem Bible, this verse talk sey: " You go get up collect your portion when the end of time reach. "		The Jerusalem Bible renders the promise to Daniel: " You will rise for your share at the end of time. "
For about three hundred years, use people wey dey judge dem take save dem from their enemy.		Consider, for example, the three centuries during which was raising up and empowering judges to deliver the nation of Israel from their oppressors.
For their side, dem fit no get the time to study Bible with Witness people.		In their home country, they may not have been able to take advantage of a Bible study or to associate freely with 's people.
God spirit dey make us get " the new character, " and joy na part of am. ( Eph.		With the help of God 's spirit, we can fully develop " the new personality, " which includes joy.
How Jesus take be the person wey Psalm 118 talk about?		How was Jesus involved in the fulfillment of Psalm 118?
How Jesus take show sey e really understand how people dey feel?		How did Jesus show empathy when Lazarus died?
How e do you for body when we talk about the kind person wey be and when you come dey hear how brothers and sisters for your congregation dey talk about am?		How did you feel when we discussed 's qualities and when you heard how your brothers feel about him?
How the ' good news about God Kingdom ' take show sey God dey show us favor?		How does the " good news of the Kingdom " highlight God 's undeserved kindness?
How the book wey dem write for young people and people wey no be Witness fit help us?		How can we benefit from considering material directed to young people and to the public?
How they fit do this one? You fit make friend with old brothers and sisters.		If you are a Christian youth, why not make it your aim to take an interest in older ones?
I learn many things from wetin e don see for life.		I gleaned much profitable wisdom from his experience in life.
If I dey tell dem about the good news of God Kingdom, I dey see as dem dey happy! '		When sharing the comforting Kingdom message, I would see the people 's eyes light up! "
If we do wetin bad well well, make we repent from our mind and beg make e forgive us.		If we fall into serious sin, we need to repent sincerely and seek 's forgiveness.
If you dey feel like that, no worry!		If that is the case, take heart!
If you dey think like that, get am for mind sey don forgive you. Make this one help you get peace of mind!		If you feel that way, please be assured that when forgives you, you can feel secure in his mercy!
sabi wetin we need one one even before we know sey we need am - whether na food, cloth or where we go stay. ( Phil.		can easily anticipate our individual needs regarding food, clothing, and shelter, even before we become aware of them.
want make husband and wife continue to stay together as one.		views marriage as a lifelong bond.
Jesus talk sey: " Anybody wey dey do bad things na slave to sin.		Jesus went on to explain: " Every doer of sin is a slave of sin.
Judas Iscariot na one of dem.		Judas Iscariot was one of those.
Luigi happy sey e control imself when the accident happen. How e for be if this brother no control imself? - Read 2 Corinthians 6: 3, 4.		In hindsight, Luigi could see how important it was that he had kept calm after the accident and how detrimental it could have been had he lost his temper. - Read 2 Corinthians 6: 3, 4.
Make sure say each person for your family see how they fit do the thing wey wuna learn. - Ps.		Make suitable application of the study material so that each member of the family benefits. - Ps.
Make we no deceive ourself. Anybody wey dey thief dey think about only imself and wetin e go gain.		No matter what the motive or how excusable the theft might seem under the circumstances, a thief puts greedy desire above God, placing too much value on material possessions.
Make we talk about some of the things.		Let us consider some.
Many refugee don run leave their family people, their village, and their congregation.		Many refugees have been torn away from their tight - knit extended families, communities, and congregations.
Marriage go strong well well if husband and wife dey forgive each other.		A solid marriage is made up of two people who make allowances for each other 's imperfections.
Me and my wife come start to dey pioneer again, na this one come make fit do more for.		Bethel and I then began to pioneer again, which opened up other joyful privileges for us.
Na only get the sense to fit bring peace.		alone has the wisdom to bring about world peace.
Na so 10,000 people come gather for Mount Tabor.		The volunteers gathered at Mount Tabor.
Na when we don do the two things wey Jesus talk and e no work, na im we go ( 3 ) call elders for congregation.		A matter should be referred to the elders only when repeated efforts to help the wrongdoer have failed.
Our book no just dey help young people manage their problem, but e still dey make their faith strong so that dem go be friend.		Besides helping young people to deal with problems, our publications help them to grow spiritually and draw close to.
Prophet Jeremiah warn Zedekiah many times make e comot hand from bad thing, but e no take correction.		The prophet Jeremiah repeatedly exhorted Zedekiah to leave his bad ways, but the king refused to be disciplined.
Rome no stop people wey dey under dem to dey serve their god, so far as e no cause wahala for the state.		They did not force the different ethnic groups of their empire to give up their religions, except when it seemed that there was a danger to the State or to morality.
Since this world go soon end, make we dey always put wetin don promise us for mind!		We are living close to the end of the present wicked system of things; thus, we have strong reason to hold on to the firm hope set before us!
So, e still need faith to believe am. For example, no body don see where snake dey change to goat.		No one has watched a reptile evolve into a mammal, for example.
So, when we do things wey hate, we no dey use this chance well.		Clearly, taking a stand against is a misuse of free will.
So make you use your sense think well so that you go fit get the correct thing wey Bible dey teach.		So use your thinking ability to gain accurate knowledge.
So that wetin go happen?		To what end?
Some people dey talk sey dem no like the way e dey preach and the way e dey use time for preaching.		Negative comments had been made about her ministry and her use of time.
Sometimes we dey invite some brothers wey dey show our children better example.		We often invited to our home brothers who were a good influence on our children.
That time, one organization wey the name na Ku Klux Klan ( KKK ), no want catch black and white people together.		The Ku Klux Klan ( KKK ), an organization that promotes racism and violence, was very active then.
The man vex well well.		Maria fled.
The secret police for Portugal ( PIDE ) suffer our brothers well well.		Our brothers were the target of much persecution by the Portuguese secret police ( PIDE ).
The small time wey Uriah dey house, David try to make am sleep with Bath - sheba so that e go be like sey na Uriah get the pikin.		When he came home temporarily, David tried to get him to have sexual relations with Bath - sheba so that it might appear that Uriah was the child 's father.
The way we use am fit make us get life wey no go end or die. So, make we talk about am.		The answer to that question can determine our everlasting future.
This one dey make us happy like the brothers for apostle time.		And the result is the same as in the first century - rejoicing over the encouragement!
This topic don tell you sey make you no comot mind from wetin you plan to use your life do for.		This article has highlighted one way to make that possible.
Upon wetin Satan do for garden of Eden, Bible show sey still give all of us hope.		Despite what Satan did in Eden, held out hope for mankind in the first Bible prophecy.
WE DEY happy say plenty people de learn about!		HOW thrilling it is to hear of increases that 's people are experiencing!
We come fit travel go Wichita, where one of our family friend wey im name na Everidge Frank " Doc " McCartney dey pioneer.		We were able to get a ride to Wichita, where a close family friend, E. F.
We know sey na ' the slave wey get sense and wey dem fit trust ' dey teach us about. And our song na part of the things wey dem take dey teach us. - Matt.		They are a part of the spiritual food provided by " the faithful and discreet slave. " - Matt.
Wetin Elias Hutter do to help people wey want learn Hebrew?		What technique did Elias Hutter introduce to help those wanting to learn Hebrew?
Wetin we go do so that business for this world no go control us?		How can we avoid becoming slaves of today 's commercial world?
Wetin we go fit learn from Jephthah and im pikin?		Why can the example of Jephthah and his daughter be helpful for us today?
Wetin we go gain when we follow the laws and wetin fit guide us for Bible?		What blessings result when we act in harmony with 's laws and principles?
When God Kingdom come, nobody go pay rent or borrow money again. Food go plenty, and we no go need to buy am. Doctor and medicine no go dey.		When God 's Kingdom does come, rent and mortgages will cease, food will be free and plentiful, health - care costs will disappear.
When Peter take explain Psalm 16: 10?		What, then, is Psalm 16: 10 saying?
When e dey six years, Brother Charles T.		Russell when she was only six years old.
When second world war start, dem no put hand at all.		When the second world war broke out, they maintained a neutral stand by keeping completely separate from the military.
When the next morning reach, the soldiers come tell me again make I wear the army uniform.		The following morning, soldiers again ordered me to put on an army uniform.
When we go back to Graz, I come dey go meeting everytime. E no tey, I come believe sey wetin I dey learn na true.		When back in Graz, I started attending all the meetings, and soon I too was convinced that what I was learning was the truth.
dey run from their place?		are fleeing?
Why e good to think about how dey rule?		Of what must each of us be convinced?
Why you think sey e good make we dey do good to our brothers and sisters?		the need for hospitality within the congregation?
wetin we dey learn for meeting.		how congregation meetings are good for us.
Your children dey fit control theirself? If e dey hard dem, you no sure sey na your example dey cause am?		So if you see that your children are struggling to control their impulses, ask yourself whether you are setting a fine example.
We go shake?		Do we have anything to fear?
Job want do wetin go mek happy whether things good or things bad.		Job wanted to please God in good times and in bad times.
So, how we take know sey na dey use im Son wey dey heaven dey lead us?		So how do we know that it really is who is leading us by means of his invisible Son?
True true, love na better character wey God spirit dey help us get. Make we ready to dey show this better character everyday.		Let us be determined to show this precious aspect of the fruitage of God 's holy spirit every day.
Wetin Jesus pray about for the night wey dem do the first Lord Evening Meal?		What did Jesus pray for on the night of the first Lord 's Evening Meal?
Wetin refugee go try make sure sey dem do?		What temptation do refugees need to resist?
The prison wey dem put the brothers make dem do wetin go make vex?		Did incarceration break the brothers ' determination to obey?
Wetin Eliphaz and Bildad talk about wetin we dey do for God work?		What did Eliphaz and Bildad claim about the effect of our service to God?
So, God let Jesus die for us so that ' many people ' fit enter paradise. Among the ' many people ' na men, women, and children. ( Matt.		Jesus became the ransom sacrifice that opened the way to endless life " for many " - men, women, and children.
Continue to Dey Allow God Spirit Direct You!		Move Forward as a Spiritual Person!
The reward na for the work wey person do, no be for the result of the work.		The reward is according to the work, not according to the results of that work.
After I don go Bible School for Single Brothers, dem come send me go another area go pioneer.		After I attended the Bible School for Single Brothers, I received a new pioneer assignment.
And, e no dey sweet us as many of dem dey go preach for where publishers no too many? Or even when dem dey do other things for work?		And do we not rejoice to see so many answer the call to serve where the need is greater or participate in other areas of theocratic activity?
And e fit make dem come join us serve.		And they may be attracted to the God we worship.
And e want make Paul get am for mind sey e don forgive am. If wetin you do really pain you, tell about am.		accepted Paul for what he was, and He expected Paul to realize that about himself.
And one telephone company for Pine Bluff don interview me whether they go give me work.		However, a telephone company in Pine Bluff had interviewed me for a job.
Around 250 years before dem born Jesus, dem translate the first five Bible book wey dey Hebrew language, go Greek language.		About the middle of the third century B.C.E., the first five books of the Bible were translated from Hebrew into Greek.
As William Samuelson Take Talk Am		As told by William Samuelson
Bible talk sey as Jephthah see im pikin, ' e come tear im cloth, come sey: " Eeeh! My pikin!		When he saw her, Jephthah " ripped his garments " and said that his heart was broken.
But, na when we dey do the many ' better work ' wey Bible talk about, God go bless us.		blesses those who are " rich in fine works. "
But after dem marry, na wetin their husband talk dem go do.		Usually, parental authority is being replaced by the authority of the husband.
But after some years, for the city of Antioch, Peter stop to chop with them.		Years later, though, Peter stopped eating with non - Jewish Christians in the city of Antioch.
But even with this sickness, Daniel really know book and e love people.		But despite his poor health, he was very intelligent and had a loving nature.
But if the steering good, e fit help the captain of the ship direct the ship go the right way.		A properly calibrated compass can help the captain to keep the ship on course.
But the rest people wey Bible call other sheep go stay this earth forever.		The other sheep have a different hope.
But wetin fit help people wey their person die?		What, specifically, can help bereaved individuals heal their painful emotional wounds?
But wetin help dem? Dem allow wetin dem read for Bible touch dem, and dem still let use im holy spirit help dem.		They gained the victory by opening their mind and heart to the power of God 's Word and his holy spirit.
Dem fit don use people wey dey work for dem carry the body and bury am.		It is more likely that they would have used servants to do the actual carrying and burying.
Deuteronomy 30: 19, 20 ( read am ) talk about this blessing.		That blessing is revealed at Deuteronomy 30: 19, 20. ( Read. )
E believe sey go help am.		She must have hoped so.
E come give me strong ' counsel ' sey make I dey arrange things well and sey e no like wetin I do.		Later, he gave me strong counsel about being organized and said that he was disappointed in me.
E get one brother wey im name na Thomas. E get one daughter wey dey 11 years. The brother sey: " My pikin fit ask me sey, ' You no sure sey just let everything for this earth come by theirself? '		Thomas, the father of an 11 - year - old girl, relates: " My daughter might ask,  Could have used evolution to develop life on earth? '
E know Bible well well and e use am answer many of our question.		He also had a wealth of Scriptural knowledge, answering many of our questions.
E put different things wey go make us enjoy life finish.		He made the earth to be man 's everlasting home, a place where man does not just survive but enjoys life to the full.
E sey: ' Make una go make people my disciple for the whole world. Take the Father, Son and holy spirit, name dey baptize dem, dey teach dem to do everything wey I don command una.		Additionally, God 's Son, Jesus Christ, gave his followers this challenging, though thrilling, command: " Go,. and make disciples of people of all the nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the holy spirit, teaching them to observe all the things I have commanded you.
Even if we still be sinner, e no mean sey we go let sin dey control our life.		Even though we remain sinners, we need not resign ourselves to having sin dominate our lives.
For 1937 dem change this name wey be The Golden Age go Consolation and for 1946 dem come begin call am Awake!.		The Golden Age was renamed Consolation in 1937 and Awake! in 1946.
For Bible, na almost the same thing for person to know where e suppose do reach and to carry body down.		Modesty and humility are closely linked traits.
For June 1940, e ride bicycle reach 65 miles ( 105 km ) go one place wey dem dey call Scarborough go start im new pioneer work. That time e dey 17 years.		In June 1940, at age 17, he cycled 65 miles ( 105 km ) to Scarborough to take up his new pioneer assignment.
For example, for the last time wey e chop with them, e notice say they no dey as one.		He had noticed a lack of unity or harmony among the apostles, such as during his final meal with them.
For example, some Christian for James time no dey treat poor people well.		For example, the disciple James had to counsel his brothers for favoring the rich over the poor.
God servant for the whole world want make their cloth and hair style dey neat and clean. Make e be wetin people for their area dey allow and gree with wetin Bible advice.		God 's servants around the globe want their dress and grooming to be neat, clean, and locally acceptable, thus conforming to Scriptural principles.
How Jennifer story take help us know sey, e good to always support as King?		How did one sister 's experience illustrate the benefit of upholding 's sovereignty?
I come dey tire for the work and my mind no come settle again.		I started to feel stressed and worried.
I really value how they train me. One day, I follow Brother Finch go preach for north Pakistan.		Once I accompanied Brother Finch on a preaching trip to northern Pakistan.
If na true sey dey support us, why we no fit just change once?		If is blessing our endeavors, should not spiritual progress come more easily?
If we dey talk to person wey no be Christian, we fit talk sey, " See wetin the Holy Book talk. "		When speaking with someone from a non - Christian background, we could say, " Notice what the Holy Writings tell us. "
If weather for their country hot, dem fit no know wetin to wear if weather for the new country cold.		Refugees from warm lands may encounter cold weather for the first time and may not know how to dress for it.
Instead, make we learn wetin good for God eye and do am.		Rather, we should personally learn what is right in God 's eyes and choose to do it.
don help us win many of our fight.		With 's help, we have won many battles.
na the number one example of Person wey dey patient.		He has set the supreme example of being willing to wait.
servant no dey think about only theirself.		God 's servants go beyond simply thinking about themselves.
Jesus get better reason why e sey make dem stop.		Jesus said to stop that - and for good reason.
Jesus still understand wetin e be like for our person to die. So, ' e go fit help people wey dey face problem. ' ( Acts 3: 15; Heb. 2: 10, 18 ) When we dey face problem today, we dey sure sey e dey pain Jesus.		Since " the Chief Agent of life " personally understands what it is like to feel grief, " he is able to come to the aid of those who are being put to the test. "
Job body sweet am after correct am.		Such was the effect of 's pointed but refreshing counsel.
Joseph and Mary do wetin dem talk.		When the Roman Empire called on people to participate in a census, Joseph and Mary complied.
Many of us young and we no too sabi the work.		Most of us were young and quite inexperienced.
Many people think sey for person to dey free, e need to fit do anything wey e want do, even if na bad thing go come out of am.		Many today think that to be truly free, they must be able to do anything and everything they want to do, regardless of the consequences.
Mek e do everything wey e don talk sey e go do. '		He should do everything he vowed he would do. "
Na different different time the 49 brothers and sisters take stay prison, from 45 days to five and half month.		News of the case hit the press, and the 49 brothers and sisters served terms ranging from 45 days to five and a half months.
Na for November 1, 1947 we start to pioneer.		Both of us began our pioneer service on November 1, 1947.
Na im make am fit talk sey im ' hand clean ' from people blood.		As a result, he could say: " I am clean from the blood of all men. "
Na so see me too, the son of one poor farmer for one small town wey the name na Liberty, for Indiana. E don bless me sotey I no fit count - am!		Similarly, took note of me, the son of a poor farmer in Liberty, Indiana, and poured out rich blessings on me - too many even to mention!
Na the people wey them de support Herod ask this question. Them de feel say Jesus go talk say e no good to pay tax.		The " party followers of Herod " who raised this issue hoped that if Jesus denounced the tax, he might be accused of sedition.
No be so!		Definitely not!
One husband and wife for United States dey like talk about when dem see something wey make wey fine well well or when dem chop better food.		A couple in the United States reflect on when the family enjoy an aspect of nature or certain foods.
One sister wey dey 24 years, wey don marry and wey don get pikin talk sey: " To read Bible dey hard me well well, but I come try follow wetin dey this topic.		I have always struggled with Bible reading, " wrote a 24 - year - old wife and mother.
Other people fit dey laugh us because we dey try put mind for things wey God like but make we no let am worry us.		Others may ridicule us for keeping on the watch, but that is no reason for us to lose our sense of urgency.
Show sey you dey support as King, whether for your family or for wetin you dey choose ( Check paragraph 16 - 18 )		Uphold God 's sovereignty in making decisions and in family activities ( See paragraphs 16 - 18 )
So, Jesus sacrifice don free us kpatakpata.		Thus the ransom has been paid permanently.
So, to am e just be like sey e don happen already. Jesus come die for our sin about 4,000 years after don talk am. E pain well well when e Son die.		Then, some 4,000 years later, at great personal cost sacrificed his only - begotten Son for the world of mankind.
So, with the way we dey dress, we fit show sey we no dey do pass ourself as we dey serve. - Mic.		Thus, even in our dress and grooming, we can show that we want to ' walk in modesty with our God. ' - Mic.
Some of our friends for France still send us e - mail and letter. This one give us mind to continue our work. " - Phil.		Also, friends from home sent us e - mails and letters to encourage us not to give up. " - Phil.
Sometimes your friend or your family person fit talk wetin go pain you wey fit mek you no happy again.		Sometimes you may feel hurt because a friend or a family member said something discouraging.
Takuya talk sey: " Na me dey sin, but use the elders take help me. "		Takuya recalls: " I was the one sinning, yet, through the elders, extended help to me. "
That 15 minutes just good for us and for dem. "		Fifteen minutes was not too hard for us or for them. "
That time, we no go ' comot for where we stand, ' and we go ' see how go take save us. '		That will be the time for us to " stand still, and see the salvation of. "
The Yearbook for 1944 talk something about this assembly. E sey this assembly make dem know Witness people for Mexico.		According to the 1944 Yearbook, this assembly " put 's on the map in Mexico. "
The boy name na Michael. E dey 12 years when the story happen.		Consider what happened to the family of a 12 - year - old lad whom we will call Milan.
The faith wey you get to do wetin good for eye, na im go make you use your mind support work so that go happy. ( Prov.		The faith and integrity that motivate your volunteer spirit are pleasing to.
The truth be sey ' e don suffer well well for many doctor hand and e don use everything wey e get, but e no still well, e come even bad pass before. ' - Mark 5: 25, 26.		In fact, " she had suffered much at the hands of many physicians and had spent all her resources, and she was no better but, rather, had become worse. " - Mark 5: 25, 26.
Their own na to do wetin want, to show sey dem respect am.		Some even view their participation in the ministry as therapy.
Then, we go fit do wetin go make happy. - 1 Cor.		To help us have a conscience that is properly trained, we should let godly principles guide us and thus bring glory to God. - 1 Cor.
They tell the husband make e no tire. And if e beg for holy spirit, e go fit de do e work as head for family.		They encouraged him to persevere and to rely on holy spirit to help him become a good spiritual head.
This na the first time wey I leave something to follow Jesus, the Master.		HOW did that situation come about?
To show sey you dey pity for people, do wetin you know sey go help dem ( Check paragraph 12 )		Show your compassion for others by offering practical help ( See paragraph 12 )
True true, we dey sure sey the Person ' wey dey judge the whole world, ' go always do the correct thing because ' mistake no dey wetin e dey do. ' - Gen.		Yes, we can be certain that, " the Judge of all the earth, " will always do what is right, " for all his ways are justice. " - Gen.
We dey stay for one upstair wey dem use wood make. Our room small well well.		We lived in a tiny room on the second floor of a log cabin.
We go pray make God give us im spirit.		Pray for God 's spirit.
We go still learn how ' the peace wey God dey give ' fit help us bear problem when we trust.		Finally, we will consider how " the peace of God " can help us to endure with full confidence in.
We no suppose to support any side for politics, even if e be like say wetin them de do correct.		They should avoid becoming involved in political issues, no matter how right or just a certain cause might seem.
We no want copy dem, so we no dey lie.		We do not want to imitate such ones - we avoid lying.
Wetin do because of this one?		Ahab humbled himself! With what result?
Wetin Paul come mean when e talk sey: ' God. no go let anything wey pass una power tempt una '?		How, then, are we to understand Paul 's words: " God. will not let you be tempted beyond what you can bear "?
Wetin be some of the things wey we change for our new songbook?		What refinements were made in the new songbook?
Wetin church leaders come do?		What was the reaction of the clergy?
Wetin fit help you stop to dey fear when you dey tell other people wetin you believe?		What might help you overcome hesitancy to speak up about your beliefs?
Wetin help Daniel and the person wey write Psalm 119 serve well?		What helped Daniel and the writer of Psalm 119 to maintain their spiritual health?
Wetin people dey do to get the freedom wey dem want?		How to satisfy those desires, however, is quite another matter.
Wetin people wey dey follow Jesus face?		What have Jesus ' followers experienced?
Wetin you don see wey fit make you believe sey this one na true?		What evidence do you have that God takes an interest in you?
When give Moses work, Moses feel sey e no go fit do am.		Remember, at one point, Moses did not feel qualified for an assignment.
Which example show sey e good for us to get law wey go help us know where we go do reach?		Illustrate why it is proper for our freedom to have limitations.
Why some papa and mama dey tell their pikin to wait if e want baptize?		What has caused some Christian parents to encourage their children to postpone getting baptized?
You fit don meet people when you dey preach wey talk sey, dem like the way we dey preach even though dem no believe wetin we dey teach.		It may even be that you have met people in your ministry who have stated that while they disagree with our beliefs, they respect us for the work we do.
I de think deep about the things wey you de tell me everytime. " - PS.		I ponder over your reminders. " - PS.
If you see sey the person don dey change, you fit pray make help am come back. - Isa.		If you see evidence that a close family member is having a change of heart, you could pray that he or she gain strength from the Scriptures and respond to 's appeal: " Return to me. " - Isa.
So, make all of us dey help each other.		Thus, we can all benefit from the support of fellow Christians.
Wetin we go learn for this topic?		What will we discuss in this article?
don show many times sey e fit and e go help poor people wey no dey do wayo.		has repeatedly shown that he can and will help disadvantaged ones who display honesty at all times.
Jim still talk sey: " I no fit comot mind for people mistake. "		I just could not stop focusing on how the others seemed to be wrong, " explains Jim.
May		No. 5 When Loved One Dies, No.
What of Jephthah pikin?		But what about Jephthah 's daughter?
Jesus tell e disciples make they " remain for [ e ] love. "		Jesus told his disciples not only to be in his love but to " remain in [ his ] love. "
This one show sey e get some other things wey Paul see as sin. And e talk for Bible sey e still dey fight this bad things wey e see as sin.		This shows that there were other things that Paul viewed as sins, and he was fighting against those wrongs too.
How go take help us with wetin dey worry us for mind?		How can we throw our anxiety on God?
Wetin your promise to mean?		In what way is your dedication to unconditional?
But, e get where we fit do reach.		However, we have limitations.
Yes, faith go make us dey sure sey God go bless people wey dey serve am well.		Yes, faith involves the certain expectation of God 's promised blessings.
Wetin you like about how David take wait?		What is outstanding about David 's patience?
How Bible don help people make they no de fight again?		How has God 's Word helped Christians to avoid conflict?
Explain how the thing wey Jesus talk for John 10: 16 fit help us dey go meeting. ( b ) How we fit take help our brothers and sisters wey their family people don pursue comot for house, if we dey go meeting every time?		Explain how Jesus ' words found at John 10: 16 help us to understand why it is important to meet with our brothers. ( b ) If we are at the meetings regularly, how can we help someone who has been rejected by his family?
Which people go need place to stay for some time?		Who may need long - term hospitality?
Cor. 6: 9 - 11 ) As dem come learn the correct things from Bible, dem come get faith. Dem let God mold dem.		As they gained accurate knowledge of God 's Word and expressed faith, they allowed to mold them.
After, when I dey Service Department, I come talk with some pioneer wey visit our branch office. Dem dey go do pioneer for Quebec, one place wey dem dey suffer people well well that time.		Later, while working in the Service Department, I interviewed pioneers who were visiting the branch office on their way to serve in Quebec, then a hotbed of opposition.
And e still make sure sey Ruth see food chop and see water drink like im worker.		He even made sure that she would get enough food and water, just like the hired workers.
And no forget sey fit help us get the kind character wey go help us fit do wetin e want.		And bear in mind that can give us the qualities we need to make decisions that are in harmony with his will.
And we still dey gain from wetin we dey learn for there.		We also derive great benefit from the spiritual instruction we receive.
Another sister for Spain still de struggle. E talk say: " Sometimes, e no de easy make I no do partial to person from another tribe. But many times, I de win.		A sister in Spain faces a similar battle: " I sometimes struggle with my feelings of animosity toward a certain ethnic group, and I succeed most of the time.
As time dey go, you no go dey think am too much, and you go fit control how body dey do you.		A good spiritual routine can help you to gain control of your thoughts and feelings.
As we dey make other people hand strong, we dey help dem to bear any wahala wey dey make dem weak and help dem get mind sey tomorrow go better.		As we strengthen the hands of others, we help them to battle discouraging circumstances and to maintain a positive and hopeful view of the future.
As we dey near great tribulation, we dey sure sey go protect im organization?		What guarantee do we have that will protect his organization as the great tribulation approaches?
As we dey wait for God to do wetin e promise, we really need to hear that kind better word to encourage us. - 2 Pet.		How we need this encouragement as we await the fulfillment of 's promises! - 2 Pet.
Because don bless me, I feel sey I dey owe am and this one dey make me work well well for am, and e dey bless me more more. "		Because of his blessing, I feel indebted to him and am moved to do more in his service, and this results in more blessings. "
Because of the right wey the law give us, we no go allow anybody use anything for our website anyhow.		By securing copyright and trademark protection, we have a legal basis to prevent such misuse.
Bible tell us sey: ' Because of the joy wey dey im front e bear am as dem nail am put for pole, e no mind the shame. '		God 's Word explains: " For the joy that was set before him he endured a torture stake, despising shame. "
But, their papa and mama know sey if dem change congregation, e no go help dem love.		But her parents knew that such a move would not be in their children 's best spiritual interest.
But no be like that. Even when we dey always beg to help us, e no dey tire to listen.		Unlike human counselors, he never gets tired of hearing our petitions, even when we ask for his help over and over.
But e come see sey no one dey follow Bible well. E get one time wey e go talk to some church leaders about wetin im and the other people wey dey follow am dey study Bible don learn.		At one point, he met with a number of local clergymen in hopes that these men would accept the truths that Russell and his associates had discovered from the Bible and teach them to members of their congregations.
But even with that one, we go fit still dey carry body down.		Still, it is possible to clothe ourselves with humility.
But if we carry body down, e go help us. How?		How will humility protect you if you face such a test?
But make you no chop from the tree wey dey make person sabi wetin good and wetin bad, because the day wey you chop am, you must die. '		But as for the tree of the knowledge of good and bad, you must not eat from it, for in the day you eat from it you will certainly die. "
But no be so people for Zebulun and Naphtali be; dem ' risk their life even if dem go die ' so that dem fit support Deborah and Barak. ( Judg.		By contrast, Zebulun and Naphtali " risked their lives to the point of death " to support Deborah and Barak.
But the advice wey dey Bible fit help anybody wey want marry.		Of course, adjustments are needed as two lives are blended and a new household is established.
But the kind love wey 2 Timothy 3: 2 talk about no be like that.		The love of self mentioned at 2 Timothy 3: 2 is not a normal, healthy love.
Coma no dey anything wey e dey do.		We, however, are imperfect.
Dem come pray make send brother wey go carry knife come.		They could not go for help, so they prayed to to send a brother with a knife.
Dem fit see sey ' to eat vegetable ' instead of ' fat cow ' good for their body and dem go still enjoy am! ( Prov.		They may find that eating " a dish of vegetables " rather than " a fattened bull " can be enjoyable and perhaps even better for their health!
Dem put body for preaching pass before.		Zeal for the ministry increased.
Dem still talk sey dem never see am vex before.		They cannot recall ever seeing him angry.
E come dey bath, e shave im beard beard make e fine, and e come dey wear the fine fine cloth wey Don give am.		He bathed, neatly trimmed his beard, and put on the better clothes that Don offered him.
E come use im holy spirit take choose dem to be im children.		Thus forgave their sins, anointed them with holy spirit, and called them to be his spiritual sons.
E dey normal for us to use boat travel from island to island for night.		We usually sailed from island to island at night.
E dey show sey e don already give im life.		What does it show?
E go make dem near each other.		Consider your own experience.
E go make una stand well, e go make una strong, una no go shake. ' - 1 Pet.		He will make you firm, he will make you strong, he will firmly ground you. " - 1 Pet.
E good make we be like wey dey always do the correct thing.		We want to be like him.
E no easy for person to do everything wey e suppose do as Christian.		That is why Jesus compared Christian discipleship to a yoke.
E no get who no need advice wey dey inside Bible.		All of us need knowledge and counsel from God 's Word.
E no tey we come sabi the brothers, the pioneers, and the territory. "		We quickly got to know the brothers, the pioneers, and the territory.
E promise sey e go bless us if we dey use wetin we get support im work. ( Mal.		He guarantees that we will receive blessings when we give in support of the Kingdom.
E really show how the advice wey de give us de protect our heart, or who we really be inside.		What an appropriate symbol of how 's righteous standards can protect our figurative heart!
E talk say: " I don see say no be to make trouble and to fight go make people do the correct thing. "		I have seen that violence does not bring justice, " she observes.
Even after dem see the Law wey use Moses give Israel people, Josiah continue to do wetin God want.		Josiah was zealous in doing what pleased God, far more so than many kings of Judah.
Even people wey just marry and some brothers wey dem change their assignment want make I advise dem.		Still others who recently got married are looking for advice on marriage. Some have been reassigned to the field.
For Liberia, Peter dey always carry our book dem go school.		In Liberia, Peter customarily took our literature to school.
God use Moses tell dem sey make dem choose whether dem go be Im special people or dem no go be. ( Ex.		Through his servant Moses, gave the people the choice to accept or reject the privilege of becoming His special property.
How you go take show sey you dey use all your mind support organization?		How can we show that we loyally support 's organization?
I come dey learn how to live with different people for new place, and dey learn new language.		Then started the adjustment to a new people, a new land, and even a new language.
If person dey feel sey na only im dey, make e dey show love to people.		Hospitality is one of the finest antidotes to loneliness.
If we do wetin Bible talk, we dey join to make congregation clean, get peace and one mind.		By obeying the instructions found in the Bible, we promote cleanness, peace, and unity in the congregation.
If we let mold us, e go help us follow our brothers and sisters serve well.		Our accepting as our Potter can affect our attitude toward fellow believers too.
tell Israel people sey: ' The place go dey protect una. ' ( Josh.		Regarding those cities, said: " They will serve as a refuge for you. "
Like Ezekiel, people no dey join mark the people wey go save.		Ezekiel was not involved with the actual marking of people for survival; neither are God 's servants today.
Make una happy and make belle sweet una, because una get plenty gain for heaven. Before una time, na so dem take suffer the prophet dem. " - Matt.		Rejoice and be overjoyed, since your reward is great in the heavens, for in that way they persecuted the prophets prior to you. " - Matt.
Make we dey think about things wey go make us still believe sey love us.		Instead, we should meditate on reassuring words about 's enduring love for us.
Make we get am for mind sey dey happy if we dey use our time well - to read Bible every day and to do personal study.		We can be sure that appreciates our efforts to make " the best use of [ our ] time " by engaging in regular Bible reading and personal study.
Make we get the mind sey, the God wey dey give life, go fit bring people wey don die come life again.		That is, assurance that our God and Life - Giver has the ability to bring a dead person back to life.
Make we no think sey go save us and our property, no matter how e cost reach, when great tribulation come. - Prov. 11: 4, ftn.		We should not expect that any of our possessions, regardless of how treasured or valuable they may be, will survive with us through the great tribulation. - Prov. 11: 4, ftn.
Make we talk more about the story of Paul and Silas. This one go help us answer that question.		To find the answer, let us return to the account of Paul and Silas.
Many of dem dey call me Mama or Grandmama.		Many of them call me Mama or Grandma.
Me and my wife preach for the area wey black people de stay, but we still de get some problems.		Our ministry had its challenges.
Na dey give dem wetin dem need. ( Ps.		provides everything they need.
Na Sierra Madre Mountains I dey pass if I want go visit some town.		To visit some towns, I had to cross the rugged Sierra Madre Mountains.
Na so e still be, the better things wey you dey tell people with your mouth fit touch their mind.		In a similar way, your positive words can deeply affect others.
Na the same time they send we and Brother Leon Weaver go circuit work. Now e de serve as the coordinator of the United States Branch Committee.		Brother Leon Weaver, now the coordinator of the United States Branch Committee, was appointed to serve as a circuit overseer at the same time.
New government still change the language wey people dey speak that time.		Political developments have affected the common language.
No matter how the missionary try explain reach, some people go still sey, ' Na wa oh! We go pray for una! '		Despite their logical and tactful explanation, the reaction may be, " Oh, we will pray for you! "
No wonder belle come sweet am. E ready to sell all im property to fit buy this one.		But to buy it would mean that he would have to sell everything else that he owned.
One sister don really see sey Bible get power. The sister name na Simone.		Simone has experienced the power of God 's Word.
One way wey we take dey show sey we dey give ' God the things wey be God own ', na when we no dey support any side for politics or war.		One way we pay back " God 's things to God " is by not taking sides in the political issues of this world.
Or make we tell am to wait? '		Would it be better to have her wait before getting baptized? '
Our congregation even buy bus wey we go dey use for preaching.		That decision gave renewed vigor to the preaching work.
Paul advice Timothy sey: " Run from all the bad things wey dey hungry young people to do.		Eliminate time and energy stealers.
Rachel na one sister wey everybody for e family get hot temper.		Rachel 's background influenced her attitude.
SONG: 54, 36		SONGS: 54, 36
Small time, other people for im family come follow am dey serve.		In time, several other members of the family did the same.
So that their light go shine, they begin preach for outside their house.		They decided to let their light shine right outside their home.
So when we dey face wahala, make we no dey worry. Wetin happen to Paul and Silas, teach Paul one lesson wey e no forget. We know this one because of the letter wey e write go give the brothers for Philippi.		That lesson no doubt made a deep impression on Paul, as evidenced by what he later wrote to the brothers in Philippi about anxiety and the peace of God.
Some young men for congregation fit come dey direct how the old brothers go dey do the work.		Some younger ones may now be coordinating activities that include older brothers.
That Passover get link with wetin dey Genesis 3: 15 and the time wey Messiah go come.		That special observance is closely connected to Genesis 3: 15 and the coming of the Messiah.
The character wey e talk about still be like the one wey dey Romans 1: 29 - 31.		The list is similar to the one found at Romans 1: 29 - 31, though the list in Paul 's letter to Timothy includes terms that are not mentioned elsewhere in the Christian Greek Scriptures.
The letter wey Paul write really encourage the brothers for Philippi. E make dem think about all the things wey don dey do for dem.		As the brothers in Philippi thought over what had happened in the ten years since those events, they would have been strengthened.
The principal agree and we do like that until my big sister finish school.		The school principal approved, and that arrangement lasted until my sister graduated.
They tell the man say: " Put faith for the Lord Jesus, and you go get life. " - Acts 16: 25 - 34.		They told him: " Believe in the Lord Jesus, and you will get saved. " - Acts 16: 25 - 34.
This elders ' no dey control our faith, ' but dem dey work with us to make us happy. - 2 Cor.		That is as it should be, for these elders are not " masters " over the faith of others but " are fellow workers " for the joy of their brothers. - 2 Cor.
This one mean sey we go serve only and nobody go force us do wetin e want.		This means that we worship only and that we obey him with our whole heart.
This topic go help us answer this question and we go learn wetin we go gain if we dey respect and praise people.		This article will help us to answer those questions, and it also highlights the benefits of rendering honor to those to whom it is due.
True true, wetin do dey show us ' wetin go happen to bad people ' for our time. As take end the bad things wey people dey do that time, na so e go still be when e go destroy this world.		Just as put an end to all the immoral activities back then, so he will put an end to similar wrongdoing today when he brings judgment against this present system of things.
Use your mind praise people.		Commend your brothers sincerely.
We dey like am if e ask us question.		If she has questions, that 's good.
We fit learn how we go train dem from wetin Paul tell Timothy, e sey: ' You, my pikin, continue to dey get power from God favor wey dey inside Jesus Christ; and the things wey you hear from my mouth, wey many people support, carry this things give men wey you fit trust, wey really fit teach other people. '		Paul provided a general outline of how training can be provided when he told Timothy: " You,. my child, keep on acquiring power in the undeserved kindness that is in Christ Jesus; and the things you heard from me that were supported by many, these things entrust to faithful men, who, in turn, will be adequately qualified to teach others. " Timothy learned by serving alongside the apostle, an older man.
We know sey time don reach to sitdown hear the song wey go play before the convention start for morning or afternoon.		As we see the clock on the video screen counting down, we know that it is time to be in our seats to enjoy the musical prelude that begins a convention session.
We no go drink till we dey drunk, but we go still try make we no drink sotey we come nearly dey drunk.		Presenting our members as slaves to righteousness will not only keep us from drunkenness but also move us to shun drinking to the point of almost being drunk.
We really enjoy the time wey we do circuit work.		We really enjoyed our assignment in the circuit work.
We thank wey tell us sey make we no let ' the flesh ' be the main thing for our life!		How grateful we can be for the encouragement not to let " the flesh " become the principal thing in our life!
Wetin come talk?		What did say in return?
Wetin John write help Gaius make e still dey treat visitor well?		Did John 's letter motivate Gaius to continue being hospitable?
Wetin be some things wey we fit do so that go pity us and forgive us for the bad thing wey we do?		What steps must we take in order to receive 's mercy and forgiveness?
Wetin be the four question wey we go answer, and why e good to know the answer?		What four questions need to be answered, and why?
Wetin fit make us believe sey David and Goliath story for Bible na true?		Why can we trust the Bible record of David versus Goliath?
Wetin fit make you dey think sey person for congregation no treat you or another person well?		Why might you mistakenly conclude that you have been a victim of injustice or that someone else has been?
When I come ask dem why dem sofri do am, dem sey dem want do am the way I go like am.		When I asked them why they were so careful, they said that they wanted the coffee to be just the way I like it.
When im brothers come buy food for Egypt, e no tell dem who e be. Why? Because e want really know if dem don change.		To understand what was in his brothers ' hearts, Joseph concealed his identity when they appeared before him in Egypt to buy food.
When our lawyer want finish wetin e dey talk, e no fear talk wetin Gamaliel talk for Bible.		Our lawyer concluded his defense by courageously quoting Gamaliel of the first century.
When we dey do better things for people, we no go too put mind for our problem.		Interestingly, when we show loving personal interest in others, we may actually let go of some of our own negative feelings.
When you get talk for meeting, assembly, or convention, you dey let the power wey Bible get touch people mind?		If you are assigned to teach from the platform, how can you unleash the power of the Bible in your presentation?
Why dem carry am go Babylon?		Why, though, would they take the container to Babylon?
You fit put eye for wetin dem dey do wey show sey dem don dey near.		This would include being alert to indications of spiritual progress.
when we no dey sure of wetin go happen tomorrow?		make decisions in the face of uncertainty?
E go happen if una do wetin talk. ' - ZECH.		It will occur - if you do not fail to listen to the voice of your God. " - ZECH.
E still tell Judah people make dem serve and do wetin im Law talk.		Furthermore, Asa urged his people " to search for. and to observe the Law and the commandment. "
And because really sabi us well, e no go let us get problem wey pass our power, sotey we come do wetin no like.		And because he knows our physical, mental, and emotional limits so well, will never allow a situation to become so difficult that we cannot remain faithful.
Wetin make dem dey sure sey na Jesus Christ dey use lead im people?		What convinced them that Jesus Christ was the one through whom was leading his people?
Apostle Peter still talk wetin dey this verse when e dey talk to " the people wey dey rule, the elders, and the people wey be scribe wey gather for Jerusalem. "		The apostle Peter made a similar connection when speaking to Jewish " rulers, elders, and scribes gathered together in Jerusalem. "
True true, dem join people wey kill Jesus.		Yes, they contributed to Jesus ' being killed.
Explain how Paul and Silas help one prison guard for Philippi.		Relate how Paul and Silas helped a jailer in Philippi.
How we take know sey person fit get the freedom wey dey give, even if e dey prison or e be slave?		How do we know that physical bondage need not diminish the freedom provides?
Wetin we learn from the answer wey Jesus give them?		What do we learn from Jesus ' response?
If to sey Bible no dey, how life for be?		What would life be like without the Bible?
Wetin fit make us ask the question: ' Which time '?		What may cause us to ask: " How long "?
But how we take know sey na wetin Jesus talk for Matthew 24: 14 we dey do?		But how do we know that the work we do is in fulfillment of Jesus ' prophecy?
But if we use cool temper talk to the person, e fit make am stop to dey vex.		In contrast, a mild - tempered reply often has a calming effect.
ready to give papa and mama the sense and power wey dem need to help their pikin. But dem need to dey pray to am, dey follow wetin Bible talk, and allow im spirit direct dem. - Read James 1: 5.		However, gives parents the wisdom and the strength they need when they humbly entreat him in prayer and look to his Word and holy spirit for guidance. - Read James 1: 5.
For this Memorial time, especially for the Memorial night, take time think about how you dey treat other people.		During this Memorial season and especially on the night of the Memorial, think deeply about how you treat others.
E no go hard us to do am when we remember sey the brother or sister dey follow us serve the ' God wey dey give peace. ' - Rom.		This is made easier when we recall that the other brother or sister is also serving " the God who gives peace. " - Rom.
Abraham make sure sey Isaac, im pikin, marry person wey dey serve.		Abraham made sure that his son Isaac married a worshipper of.
All this story about people wey die and wey dem resurrect, suppose make you get the kind mind wey Martha get.		The accounts mentioned above should give you something that Martha had.
And I want tell other people make dem do the same thing. If dem do am, go bless dem well well.		I too have had similar opportunities, and I heartily urge others to do the same and experience many blessings.
And you no go know wetin don do to help human being.		And you would not know of 's past dealings with the human family.
Apostle Paul talk sey: " God no dey do bad, to come forget all una work and the love wey una show for im name. " ( Heb.		The apostle Paul promised: " God is not unrighteous so as to forget your work and the love you showed for his name. "
Arthur Willis later talk wetin dey insideThe Golden Age magazine, e talk sey: ' No road too far and no road too bad for people. '		Arthur Willis, in paraphrasing a statement once made in The Golden Age magazine, later declared: " No road too rough or too long for His. "
As I still dey think about wetin I go do, I come get accident when I dey drive machine. Na so I take see myself for hospital.		While I was wrestling with these concerns, I had a motorcycle accident and ended up in the hospital.
At last, one old sister come start to dey come meeting.		Finally, an older sister started attending.
Because of the Septuagint, Jews wey dey speak Greek and other people come fit read Bible.		The Septuagint did much to make the Hebrew Scriptures readable to Greek - speaking Jews and others.
Because that kind thing fit make us no serve with sweet mind again for this last days.		Therefore, it would not be good to expect too much of fellow believers and to let their faults rob us of the joy that comes from being part of God 's people in these last days.
Before Job know wetin dey happen, everything for im life just change.		In a very short space of time, Job 's life changed dramatically.
Before Stephen answer the brother question, e first tell am make e think about another thing wey apostle Paul talk for Bible. E talk sey, ' the God wey dey make our mind come down, dey help us anytime wey we dey wahala [ ' problem, ' ftn. ]. ' - 2 Cor.		Before addressing that question, Stephen asked Eduardo to consider something else that the apostle Paul wrote, namely, that is " the God of all comfort, who comforts us in all our trials [ " tribulation, " ftn. ]. " - 2 Cor.
Before you choose wetin you go do, make you first think about wetin fit happen to your family and the congregation wey you dey ( Check paragraph 15 )		Before making a decision, think of the effect it will have on your family and the congregation ( See paragraph 15 )
Bible no tell us plenty things about wetin dem talk but when Jesus tell am make e follow am, e agree.		The Gospels record very little of that conversation, but Matthew accepted Jesus ' invitation to be his follower.
But e still give am time to let people know whether wetin e talk correct. Why?		So why has God chosen to allow the issue to go on, giving Satan time to try to prove his point?
But na now I fit really talk sey I love. '		But only now can I honestly say that I love. '
But nothing go fit stop God message make e no reach the heart of people wey want learn about God.		But no ideology can stop the Word of God from reaching the hearts of honest people.
But people wey dey another language congregation still get other things wey dey give dem problem.		But those serving in a foreign field face yet other challenges.
But we know sey for our Papa for heaven, to do the correct thing and to get the kind character wey e get na im better pass.		But we can be sure that to our heavenly Father, our displaying honesty and his other qualities is certainly worth more, yes much more, than any precious gems!
Copper IUD: As we talk before, IUD dey make am hard for man sperm to reach where woman egg dey.		Copper: As mentioned, IUDs seem to make it difficult for sperm to survive passing through the uterus to reach an egg.
Dem dey worship me for nothing, because wetin dem dey teach na people law. "		It is in vain that they keep worshipping me, for they teach commands of men as doctrines. '
Dem want make people stop to read Bible and stop to dey ask Church leaders question.		The goal was to discourage people from reading the Bible and questioning the church.
Do things wey go make your faith strong more more. Make you dey always read Bible, dey prepare for meeting, no dey miss meeting, dey go preaching, and dey pray make help you fit bear am.		Build yourself up by regularly reading the Bible, preparing for and attending Christian meetings, sharing in the field ministry, and praying for the strength to endure.
E be like sey na im make people no really know about Meroz.		Could it have been a city whose inhabitants failed to respond to the initial rally for volunteers?
E clear sey really want make people wey dey speak different different language know wetin dey Bible.		Clearly, wants people of " every nation and tribe and language " to have the opportunity to benefit from his Word.
E dey pain well well if people dey treat us anyhow because of our tribe, skin color, or because we no be like dem.		It can be devastating if we are mistreated because of our ethnic background, the color of our skin, or some other physical difference.
E good like that, so that people no go come reason another thing.		Thus no one would have a basis to misconstrue what is occurring.
E need to sofri wait make ' the better things wey e plant grow. '		He accepts that he needs to wait patiently for " the precious fruit of the earth. "
E talk sey: ' Wetin dey sweet me pass be sey, dem dey form new new group and congregation for different different village wey dey inside bush.		Seeing how groups and congregations are being formed in remote regions is my greatest joy, " she says.
E tell am sey im faith don make am well, make e go well, and make e no sick again. - Mark 5: 34.		Go in peace, and be healed from your grievous sickness. " - Mark 5: 34.
E tell the scribe say make e de do like the Samaritan man.		Jesus concluded his story by telling the scribe to be like that Samaritan.
Even as dem many reach, give all of dem name.		Yet, gives a name or a designation to each star.
Even though sey e no easy for many Israel people wey grow for Babylon, dem no join this wicked people.		Having grown up amid the filthy and idolatrous ways of this city, they had to fight every day to resist the spirit of that pagan world.
Every week, Gloria de iron clothes for one family.		Each week, Gloria did ironing for one family.
For our time, somebody for congregation fit do wetin bad well well for God eye. If e want be friend again, e good make e go tell elders.		Today, a Christian guilty of serious sin needs to seek the help of congregation elders to recover.
How Bible take show sey person wey God spirit dey direct different from person wey im body dey control?		How does the Bible 's description of a physical man differ from that of a spiritual man?
How dem suppose preach?		What methods should be used?
How we go take show sey we value life like?		How do we show that we share 's view of life?
How you think sey life go be when war, sickness and death no dey again?		Imagine a world without warfare, sickness, or death!
I come see sey I need to change my work so that I fit put God own first, even though sey na from there I dey chop. '		I finally realized that in order to put Kingdom interests first, I needed to change my line of work. "
I really want stay for convent because I love God.		They wanted to keep me away from a boy who liked me.
If we dey carry shoulder up, we fit dey think sey we better pass other people. E fit even enter our head sotey we no go want hear advice or warning from Bible. ( Rom. 12: 3; Prov.		If we failed to guard against pride, we too could begin " to think more of [ ourselves ] than it is necessary to think, " perhaps even to the point of resisting Scriptural counsel.
If we see sey we no fit, and another person dey wey fit do the new work, person wey no dey do oversabi go sey no.		A prayerful and realistic analysis will help us to avoid overreaching our current abilities and limitations.
Im friend don do something wey no like.		His friend David had taken a path that had 's disapproval.
Insurance: This na contribution wey person go talk sey na Witness branch office wey dey im country, go collect im life insurance or pension money.		Insurance: A donation made by specifying an entity used by 's as the beneficiary of a life insurance policy or a retirement / pension plan.
JUST think am sey this thing dey happen.		IMAGINE the scene.
Jesus die as human being and after, God come resurrect am go heaven as spirit wey no fit die again.		He used the example of Jesus, who died as a human and then was raised up as an immortal spirit in heaven.
Jesus no want make people dey swear anyhow.		Jesus, then, condemned the practice of taking oaths lightly.
Jesus talk say e dey important make we de put body down. E talk this one after e don make - am clear say make we de see each other as brothers and sisters.		After making it clear that we should view one another as brothers and sisters, Jesus stressed the need for humility.
Look the people face.		Look at the people, at their faces and their eyes.
Make we do like Paul. Instead make we think sey we fit do am by ourself, make we trust to help us and make we get faith for Jesus sacrifice.		By imitating Paul, by fully relying on and not on our own strength, and by having faith in the ransom.
Many people for Bible no fear, dem do the kind things wey show sey dem no get any business with politics.		Many in Bible times had courage, and they made wise decisions that helped them to stay neutral.
Na better thing sey you follow wetin you learn!		If you have responded positively, rejoice!
Na so I take go Wallkill, New York. After 60 years wey I don stay for Puerto Rico, I come be like indigene.		After 60 years on the island, I felt as Puerto Rican as a coqu, the popular little Puerto Rican tree frog that sings ko - kee, ko - kee at dusk.
Na when we dey do wetin we don learn from Bible and our book dem, we fit do wetin go make happy with us.		By applying what we learn from the Bible, we can make decisions that please.
Na when we let dem push us to choose wetin bad.		Peer pressure could sway us to make a bad decision.
No forget sey na Heldai, Tobijah, and Jedaiah bring wetin Zechariah take make the crown.		Remember that Heldai, Tobijah, and Jedaiah brought the materials for the crown that Zechariah made.
Our meeting na one way wey we take dey worship.		Reflect on the importance of attending the Memorial.
Papa and mama wey be Christian get the work to teach their pikin to follow wetin Bible talk.		Christian parents have a responsibility to teach their families to apply Bible principles.
People wey dey the girl house " know sey the girl don die. "		Those at the girl 's house " knew she had died. "
Sakiko still talk sey: " To learn Portuguese no easy o, na work. But the blessing wey we get pass the time wey we take learn the language.		It took a lot of work to learn Portuguese, " adds Sakiko, " but the blessings far outweigh the efforts.
So, e dey hungry us to know the time when correct Christians take comot from fake religion hand!		We are eager to learn when God 's people were completely freed from Babylon 's clutches!
Some brothers and sisters wey join new congregation don see sey dem need to love ' brothers and sisters ' for the whole world. No be just some of dem. - 1 Pet.		Some newcomers realized to their surprise that their move forced them to ask themselves, ' Do I truly love " the whole association of brothers "? ' - 1 Pet.
The place far well well. E dey take 12 days to go and come if person use train.		Once a year Maria traveled to Saransk to visit me, although the journey from Tulun and back took 12 days by train.
The soldier tell Michael and im family to come down from the motor because of their tribe. The soldier allow the rest people go where dem dey go.		But at the border, soldiers pulled the family off the bus because of their ethnicity; yet, they allowed the other brothers to proceed.
The things wey we dey think, fit make us talk or do wetin we go later regret especially if we dey vex.		Thoughts, including those that are emotionally charged, can lead to words and actions we may later regret.
The way God take treat Israel people, mek Jephthah know wetin God like and wetin God no like.		The way treated His people taught him God 's standards of right and wrong.
Think about one new thing wey the Governing Body don talk.		Consider a recent decision made by the Governing Body.
This one dey make dem happy. Wetin show sey dey our back?		How does the way the organization operates today give evidence of 's backing?
This topic dey talk about wetin fit help old and young people when this kind thing happen.		This article discusses how both young and old can successfully make the transition.
To fit respect person, you go first know how e dey think.		To respect someone, you need to know how he thinks.
We be clay, and na you mold us; we be your hand work. '		We are the clay, and you are our Potter; we are all the work of your hand. "
We dey happy well well as Jesus dey make all of us get one mind. ( Col.		Especially are we thankful for Christ 's kindness in gathering true worshippers into unity.
We dey hope sey many people go join for this work!		May many more willing workers start that training soon!
Wetin be one thing wey make marriage dey?		What was an important purpose of marriage?
Wetin be some things wey organization don do?		What are some things being accomplished by 's organization?
Wetin be the next thing wey we go talk about, and why?		What will we consider next, and why?
Wetin make us know sey we go fit show real love?		What indicates that imperfect humans are able to show unselfish love?
Wetin person fit do me? "		What can man do to me? "
When Stephany dey for 23 years, e come marry Paul.		Paul and Stephany got married - but after she turned 23.
When you look the two of dem, which one many pass?		What does the comparison reveal?
Why we no suppose to dey fear to give our life?		Why is the step of dedication not to be feared or avoided?
You learn anything from this topic about the four king wey use all their mind serve?		Do you see the benefit of reviewing how the four kings of Judah whom we have considered served with a complete heart?
How Jesus help e disciples make they really dey as one, and make they no de do partial?		How did he help his followers learn to treat others impartially and be truly united?
[CONTENT_REMOVED]		See paragraphs 11, 12 )
[CONTENT_REMOVED]		See paragraphs 13 - 15 )
If to sey dey choose the kind problem wey we dey face, we go really fit talk sey dey let us do wetin we want?		Were to choose which trials would come upon us, would he not, in effect, be diminishing the gift of free will?
How one young brother take use the chance wey e get to preach for school?		How did one youth use an opportunity to give a witness at school?
Wetin Brother George Gangas talk about our meeting?		How did Brother George Gangas feel about Christian meetings?
Why God hate am if person sleep with who no be im husband or wife?		Why does God 's Word forbid sex outside marriage?
E tell us sey make all of us dey believe the same thing.		It urges us to promote unity of doctrine.
How the apostles behave when Jesus teach one Samaritan woman?		How did the apostles react when Jesus taught a Samaritan woman?
Make our Papa wey love us dey give us power, so that we go do everything wey we fit do for this preaching work. - 2 Tim.		May all of us continue to be energized by our loving Father as we do our very best and fully accomplish our ministry. - 2 Tim.
Ezekiel still talk the same thing about our time. E first talk about wetin go happen to people wey get hope sey dem go rule with Jesus for heaven.		Similarly, the modern - day fulfillment of Ezekiel 's prophecy points first to what would happen to those with a heavenly hope.
When Bible talk about " hand, " wetin e fit mean?		How does the Bible use the word " hands "?
Another thing be sey, ' love dey patient and e get good mind.		Moreover, " love is patient and kind.
The second thing wey you go do, na to sitdown think about wetin you go tell the person.		Next, review in your mind what you are going to say.
After, Paul and Silas comot for Philippi. But Luke wey be doctor, and wey dey preach with Paul, no comot. Paul don first talk sey e get the right wey Rome people get.		Perhaps because of Paul 's actions, his traveling companion Luke, the physician, was able to remain in Philippi after Paul and Silas left.
After 70 years wey dem take be slave for Babylon, dem come free!		After 70 long years of captivity, they were freed from Babylon.
After this promise dem go come be husband and wife. Dem go stay with each other until dem die. ( Gen.		They are then pronounced husband and wife, and their marriage is meant to be a lifelong bond.
After we don talk with dem, for 1954, dem come put my name among people wey no go join military.		As a result of that hearing, in the late summer of 1954, the board recognized me as a minister.
All of dem love and I happy to work with this kind people! - Ps.		What a joy it has been to serve with such faithful spiritual men! - Ps.
Another brother fit dey feel sey e no go fit do the work.		Another brother might have feelings of inadequacy about fulfilling an assignment.
Another thing be sey, if we dey carry body down, we go follow wetin elders talk, dey patient and wait make correct the matter if any partial dey.		Second, humility will help us to be submissive and patient as we wait on to correct any true injustice.
Aug.		Making Christian Marriage a Success, Aug.
Bible still talk sey for our time, people go get another kind of love. Dem no go love God and other people. Instead, dem go only like theirself and other things.		Yet, the inspired Scriptures also foretold that in our day, a misdirected kind of love characterized by selfishness would be shown by people who are alienated from God.
Brother Jensen really know wetin good for my body!		Brother Jensen evidently knew what was good for me!
But know sey, e no go make sense to answer person wey no ready to listen or who dey use you dey play. - Prov.		Of course, it is good to bear in mind that you are not obligated to answer those who are not reasonable or who just want to make fun of what you believe. - Prov.
But this arrangement still help us know the kind person wey be, and how we fit be like am.		But from the cities of refuge, we also learn about and how we may reflect his qualities.
But when me and Maxine see Brother Knorr another time, e invite us come im room and e cook for us.		Nevertheless, the next time Maxine and I saw Brother Knorr, he invited us to his room and cooked a meal for us.
Dem come dey plan how dem go fit do am.		They searched for ways to make their dream come true.
Dem don teach us many better things for Bible. Even self, e don nearly reach hundred years since dem start to direct us. - Matt.		Surely there is ample evidence to show that you can trust the channel that has used for nearly a hundred years now to lead us in the way of the truth. - Matt.
Dem follow the advice wey the elder give dem.		They accepted the elder 's counsel and applied it.
Dem no dey fear or follow im law. But Naboth no be like dem.		Those Baal worshippers had no respect for or appreciation for his standards.
Dem put only me for one prison for six months.		I spent half a year in solitary confinement.
Dem talk sey na God dey punish am for the bad things wey e do.		Yet, Job maintained his integrity.
E get some people wey wicked well well before, and other people dey fear dem.		How has the Bible helped people to transform their personalities?
E go make us no dey think about only ourself or begin carry shoulder when dem praise us.		It helps us to avoid having an inflated opinion of ourselves if some honor comes our way.
E no easy for am to comot from where e dey before.		This meant sacrifice on his part.
E sey: " So that I no go too rich make I come deny you sey, ' Who be? ' " ( Prov.		He wrote: " So that I do not become satisfied and deny you and say, ' Who is? ' "
E still talk say if person de think about sex matter, e fit make the person go sleep with another person even if e don marry. ( Matt.		Throughout his ministry, Jesus taught basic truths to help his disciples recognize the consequences of certain attitudes or actions.
E still talk sey person wey fit control im temper dey show sey e get sense.		The Bible, however, encourages Christians to be mild - tempered.
E tell Christian dem for Ephesus sey: ' Una don hear about the work wey God favor make me get because of una. '		He told the Ephesian Christians: " You have heard about the stewardship of God 's undeserved kindness that was given to me for your sakes. "
Even if e dey their mind to serve God well, dem no really know wetin Bible mean when e sey make Christians dey do wetin government talk.		Although they were sincere, the brothers did not always have a proper view of subjection to the secular governments.
Even with all this suffer, e let guide am.		However, he let guide him through difficult times.
For 1951, I fill form to go Watchtower Bible School of Gilead.		In 1951, I filled out an application to attend the Watchtower Bible School of Gilead.
For example, even though sey King Ahab na bad person, Jehoshaphat let im pikin marry Ahab pikin.		For example, he formed a marriage alliance with wicked King Ahab of the northern kingdom.
For example, one sister for Great Britain talk say: " After wetin I study for university don open my eye about all the partial wey people de face, I begin put hand for politics. "		After taking social studies classes at the university, I developed radical views, " says a sister in Great Britain.
For example, people from other country no want make woman wear some kind cloth.		For instance, people from some lands have strong feelings about proper dress for women.
For example, when I be circuit overseer I give my first public talk for open place for front of shop.		For example, I gave my first public talk as a circuit overseer in front of a village store out in the open.
From Zechariah sixth vision, we don learn sey, if we love, we no go thief and we go keep our promise.		Zechariah 's sixth vision has helped us to see that lovers of should not engage in any kind of stealing or make false oaths.
From the time wey God make people, dem start to choose wetin dem want.		From the start of human existence, men and women have had to make important decisions.
God fit still help you as e help dem.		That can be your experience too.
How Abraham and im family take continue to make their faith strong?		How did Abraham and his family keep their faith strong?
How take help this husband and wife?		Has extended his right hand to this faithful couple?
How example wey dey touch mind fit help pikin get faith for wetin dey Bible?		How can illustrations help children to build faith in the Bible?
I come here because the elders sey make I come.		I am here because the elders wanted me to be here.
I don come do wetin you want. "		I have come to do your will. '.
I no come dey go study again because I dey think sey I better pass everybody. "		My self - righteousness got the better of me, so I quit the truth. "
Instead, na advice of the young people wey dey around im age and wey dey work for am, e follow. Wetin come happen?		Instead, he took the advice of the younger men with whom he had grown up and who were now his attendants.
Jehoshaphat na better king wey use all im mind do wetin want. ( 2 Chron.		He did what was right and " searched for with all his heart. "
come help am. We know from Bible sey no dey do that kind miracle today wey go heal person or add years join person life, as e do for Hezekiah.		We know from the Scriptures that we are not living at a time when we can look to God for miraculous healings or an extension of our life.
example show sey e dey do us well and e no dey tight hand		Setting the example, is kind and openhanded
sorry for Israel people when dem do wetin e no like.		felt compassion for his people Israel even when they sinned.
Jesus show love even when people dey suffer am. ( 1 Pet.		Second, reflect on how Jesus showed love even when provoked.
Jesus tell im disciple dem sey: ' I give una free, so make una give free. ' ( Matt.		Jesus told his disciples: " You received free, give free. "
Like Paul, make elders for congregation dey train other brothers wey go later direct the work!		What a fine example for elders to imitate today as they train other men to take the lead in the congregation!
Make we talk about wetin Paul mean when e sey ' to dey put mind for the spirit dey bring peace. '		Let us reflect on the assurance that " setting the mind on the spirit means. peace. "
Many of this people wey want learn more, come dey run go other country wey church leaders no dey too control.		Many who thirsted for Bible truth fled to countries where the influence of the church was less pervasive.
NA WHEN I dey 12 years I first know sey I get better thing to give people.		WHEN I was 12 years of age, I first realized that I had something valuable to give.
Na im mek tell Israel people sey: ' Wetin I talk go dey fall like dew, like when rain dey fall small small on top grass. '		told the Israelites: " My words will trickle as the dew, as gentle rains upon grass. "
Na so organization still dey do.		The same is true of 's organization.
Na this command big pass and na im be the first.		This is the greatest and first commandment.
Na true sey we go really happy if we get work wey go make us get money, dey control people or make people know us?		Is it true that succeeding in a secular career that offers power and prestige leads to lasting happiness?
Now wey we don see sey e no good to play with wetin we promise God, make we talk about this two question: Which kind promise we fit promise today?		Now that we understand how serious it is to make a vow to God, let us consider these questions: What sort of vows might we as Christians make?
Other branch office later follow this arrangement.		Other branch offices followed suit.
Paul no fear, but no be sey e want show sey e too get mind.		He was neither overconfident nor paralyzed with fear.
Paul tell Timothy for letter sey: " You don follow wetin I teach well well, the way I live my life, wetin I use my life do, my faith, my patience, my love, the way I take endure. " ( 2 Tim.		Paul wrote to Timothy: " You have closely followed my teaching, my course of life, my purpose, my faith, my patience, my love, my endurance. "
People no go dey use things like, gold and silver do business.		Gold, silver, and gems will be for adornment, not for investment or hoarding.
So e good make you ask yourself sey: ' When I dey meeting, I dey see our song as part of our worship?		Thus, each one of us should ask himself: ' How do I view the singing at our meetings for worship?
So that we fit answer this question, make we talk about three things wey fit make us no get strong love for Jesus again, and wey fit make us start to comot mind from things wey concern God. The three things na: work, enjoyment, and money.		In this regard, let us consider three areas of life that if not kept in their proper place could weaken our love for the Christ and for spiritual things - secular work, recreation, and material things.
So they believe say Jesus go remove all their problem.		He was an outstanding speaker; he could cure the sick; he could even supply food for the hungry.
So we don see sey, Matthew talk many things about Joseph pass Mary. E tell us wetin dey Joseph mind and wetin e do. But Luke tell us many things about Mary pass Joseph.		So, then, Matthew describes more of Joseph 's concerns and activities while Luke gives more details about Mary 's role and experiences.
The brothers and sisters wey go the assembly happy well well no be small. Dem no regret am at all even though sey e no easy for dem to come.		For those appreciative, gathering in joyful Christian assembly was unquestionably worth all the sacrifices.
The soldiers see me like bad person wey no fit change. So, dem carry me go military court for Athens.		The authorities viewed me as an incorrigible rebel and took me to Athens to face a military court.
The truth be sey, e no easy to choose wetin good and to dey live like Christian.		Frankly, it can be a real struggle to make the right choices and to follow the Christian course.
Their sin don plenty sotey come talk sey e go punish dem. E go let Babylon people carry dem go Babylon as slave. ( Isa.		They had sinned to such an extent that decided to execute judgment on them by having them taken into exile in Babylon.
Then for 1999, they appoint me as member of the Governing Body.		Then in 1999, I was appointed to be a member of the Governing Body.
This one go help dem talk wetin go enter person mind.		This can equip them to render help tailored to our needs.
This one just dey like when our papa and mama or other people for congregation first teach us the truth.		For the sake of comparison, let us say that years ago some or our Christian parents shared the Kingdom news with us.
Una no fit serve God and money. "		You cannot slave for God and for Riches. "
WE LOVE, ' because na im first love us. '		WE LOVE " because he first loved us. "
We fit show dem any Bible verse wey go help dem. We fit tell dem to join us for preaching.		Although many who are weak later become strong in the faith, others need our patient, ongoing support.
We fit still help young people wey dem dey force do wetin bad. And young people wey want " make am " for this world, whether na for school, money matter or their work. ( 1 Thess.		We can also strengthen young ones who are facing pressure to share in wrongdoing or to seek " success " in this system of things, whether academically, financially, or professionally.
We go fit copy character well that time. That kind life go really make sense!		Imagine how wonderful life will be when everyone we know is clothed to perfection with the new personality!
Wetin make us to fit do?		created humans with what remarkable abilities?
Wetin Jesus know about wetin Judas and Peter do?		What did Jesus understand about the faults of Judas Iscariot and Peter?
Wetin dem write about Jew people show sey, people wey dey sell for temple really cheat their customer.		Jewish historical records show that temple merchants exploited their customers by charging exorbitant prices.
Wetin go happen if we serve go reach the end?		If we are loyal to, what delightful future can we look forward to?
Wetin person dey use fake love do? Na love be that?		We might wonder, ' Is there such a thing as love with hypocrisy? '
When Jesus don grow, e happy because e dey do wetin want make e do.		Jesus grew up to be a happy adult. What made him happy?
When dem correct some people, e dey pain dem sotey dem go leave and im people. When this kind thing happen, belle no dey sweet us. ( Heb.		Sadly, after receiving discipline, some fail to see past the pain and even draw away from God and his people.
When e dey remember the time wey e dey another country dey preach, e sey: " give me wetin I need, when I need am. "		Looking back on her years of serving abroad, she states: " always provided what I needed and when I needed it. "
Which other thing make Martha get the mind sey im brother go fit come life again?		What contributed to Martha 's confidence that Lazarus would be resurrected?
Why apostle Paul tell Hebrew Christians to encourage each other pass before?		Why did the apostle Paul exhort the early Hebrew Christians to encourage one another " all the more so "?
Why people wey like money no dey really happy?		Why are lovers of money not truly happy?
Why sex matter wey no clean for God eye fit make us no get wetin promise?		Why can immoral desires deprive us of the prize?
You dey run from things wey fit make you over drink? What if you dey always think about sex matter wey no clean for God eye?		If you battle sexually immoral desires, are you avoiding any movies, websites, or activities that may trigger unclean thoughts?
You think sey if na apostle Paul or Aquila and Priscilla, dem go dey post their picture or dey follow person wey no dey serve for internet?		Can we imagine the apostle Paul or Aquila and Priscilla occupying themselves each day posting images or following someone outside of the brotherhood?
Your pikin own fit be to talk why e fit hard some people to believe sey something wey big well well like this our earth dey ontop nothing.		Your child 's job could be to show how difficult it might be for some to believe that a very large object, such as the earth, could sit on nothing.
wey we write for April 2009, carry one topic wey be " Young People Ask.		included the article " Young People Ask.
why dey mold im people?		why molds his people?
Na im make dem no bear any apostle name. Instead, dem come dey bear Christian.		Instead of naming themselves after a prominent apostle, " the disciples were by divine providence called Christians. "
So ask yourself sey: ' I dey quick forgive people wey do wetin I no like, even if dem do am again?		Ask yourself: ' Is my forgiveness within reach of people who have wronged me, even repeatedly?
When person baptize, e dey make people know sey e don stop to do wetin e want.		In imitation of Jesus, they consider 's will to be paramount in their lives.
answer im prayer when King Artaxerxes make am governor for the area.		s blessing came when King Artaxerxes appointed Nehemiah governor of the region.
The Memorial wey we go do before Jesus go " come " take anointed ones wey remain for earth go heaven, go be the last one.		The last Memorial that is observed prior to this gathering of the anointed to heaven will be the final one, for Jesus will have ' come. '
One book talk sey the Greek word wey dem translate as " correction " fit mean " to train pikin. "		One Bible reference work suggests that the Greek word translated " discipline " might be rendered " child development. "
Wetin dey make Bible student talk sey e want baptize?		What motivates Bible students today to get baptized?
How we fit help new publisher and our pikin dem know why e good to help people for congregation?		In what practical ways can you train new publishers and young ones to show love for their brothers and sisters?
But wetin we fit do if the things wey dey make us worry don pass our power?		But what can we do when we are overwhelmed by feelings of anxiety?
Why we need to follow that advice for this our time?		Why is this counsel so needed in our day?
But Judges 5: 15 - 17 talk about Reuben, Dan, and Asher tribe sey, dem put mind for their property pass the way dem take put mind for work. Their sheep, their boat, and where dem dey keep the boat na im dey their mind pass.		On the other hand, the tribes of Reuben, Dan, and Asher were each singled out at Judges 5: 15 - 17 for giving more attention to their own material interests - as represented by their flocks, ships, and harbors - than to the work that was having done.
Joseph know sey na better thing e do as e wait for to bless am.		Ultimately, Joseph realized that the wait was worth it.
E still good make you gree sey you need person wey go advice you.		A further help is to admit your own need for advice.
Who We Go Respect and Praise?		Give Honor to Whom It Is Due
After some time, Sadiq begin preach the good news too, and e do - am with all e heart.		In time, Sadiq became a zealous publisher of the good news.
And brothers and sisters don really help me.		And the brothers and sisters are so encouraging.
And the kind place wey we dey stay, fit still affect wetin we dey wear.		So do varying circumstances and living conditions.
And this one go help us choose the thing wey e go make God happy.		That, in turn, helps us to make wise decisions.
Angela, me and Etta Huth		With Angela and Etta Huth
Another thing wey go help us make we no use our freedom anyhow, na to trust and let am direct us with im law.		Another way to guard our gift of free will is to put our trust in and let him guide us within the protective boundaries that he has set for us.
As Governing Body dey let wetin dey Bible direct dem, who we go talk sey na im really dey lead God people today?		If those of the Governing Body allow God 's Word rather than popular opinion to guide their decisions, who is really leading God 's people today?
As e dey sleep, Jael come gather mind kill am. ( Judg.		Sisera was now vulnerable to Jael 's decisive act of courage to put him to death.
Because Bible tell us sey God hate am.		Because God 's Word forbids sexual immorality.
Because don make us to fit like wetin fine, na im make better things dey sweet us. - Read Psalm 19: 1; 104: 24.		We admire these creations because we have a built - in sense of what is truly beautiful. - Read Psalm 19: 1; 104: 24.
Because dem dey do construction work for branch office wey dey Canada, dem come sey make I join dem. Na so I take be Bethelite for December 1.		Since the branch was doing construction work, I was invited to help and became a member of the Canada Bethel family on December 1.
Bible give us any advice wey fit help us if this kind thing happen?		Does God 's Word provide counsel to help us if we face this ugly side of imperfect human behavior?
Bible show sey e good make we dey thank God. ( Col.		The Bible says: " Show yourselves thankful. "
Bible talk sey: ' Na when we give we dey happy pass when dem give us. ' ( Acts 20: 35 ) Wetin that place talk don happen to you before?		Have you ever experienced the truth of the scripture that says: " There is more happiness in giving than there is in receiving "?
Brother Atkinson come tell us make we dey go meeting for one brother house.		We were invited to attend meetings at a brother 's home a few miles away.
But Witness people wey dey USSR no gree put hand for politics matter.		All over the USSR, 's remained neutral in political matters.
But many of God people no be like that.		But most of God 's people are not like that.
But no be so e be for Witness convention.		That is not the case at the convention of 's.
But real faith no be like that. Real faith na ' to believe sey we don see wetin we dey wait for. '		Real faith, on the other hand, is " the assured expectation " of our Christian hope.
But wetin make dem choose me?		Why was I picked?
But you go see am from their character and wetin dem dey do sey dem really love.		Their deep love for was evident by their actions and attitudes.
Cool temper dey make happy.		A mild temper makes happy.
David still dey young when choose am sey e go be king for Israel. But David wait for about 15 years before dem make am King for Judah.		Although anointed by at an early age to be the future king of Israel, David had to wait some 15 years before he was made king over his own tribe.
Dem fit still tell us sey dem need money to take repair the branch office for our country. Dem fit even need money to arrange the place where we dey do convention, or to help our brothers wey dey wahala.		We may be made aware of financial needs with regard to renovations to our local branch office, a convention we are attending, or assistance to our brothers after a natural disaster.
E clear sey Jesus want make we dey forgive people every time; make this one be the first and main thing wey suppose come our mind. - Matt.		Clearly, Jesus meant that we should always be willing to forgive; this should be our first and predominant leaning. - Matt.
E fit no dey your mind to smile, but if you smile, e go make people near you.		A smile will draw others to you.
E get one time wey Jesus invite one tax collector wey im name na Matthew Levi. E tell am sey: " Come follow me. "		Jesus once invited a tax collector named Matthew Levi, saying: " Be my follower. "
E go happy to see sey we don stop to serve God and sey we no want mek God be our King.		He is eager to see us reject God 's right to rule and stop serving Him.
E good make person wey dey serve ask imself sey, ' Na my work be the number one thing for my life? '. - w17.05, pp.		Christians should weigh the place that secular work has in their heart. - w17.05, pp.
E talk sey: " Sometimes, e no easy to master some kind things. But even though sey I no strong reach as I be before, I still dey do wetin I fit do for congregation.		She says: " Sometimes it is challenging to adapt, but despite my limited abilities, I feel so useful in the congregation.
E talk sey: " To stop the bad things wey I dey do before I baptize, come easy pass to control my temper! " Wetin help am change?		Kevin admitted, " Learning to control my temper was actually harder than quitting my old vices! "
E talk sey: " When I first start to sleep with people, e dey make me feel like sey people love me and dem want me.		She explains: " At first, I got a sense of security when having immoral relations, thinking that I was needed and loved.
E talk sey: ' E first hard me to learn the people language and to master their weather. Malaria, worm and other sickness really disturb me.		She relates: " At first, I struggled to learn the local language, to adjust to the humid climate, and to cope with malaria, amoebas, and parasitic worms.
Even when we think sey we know everything, na only know wetin dey person mind. ( 1 Sam.		No matter how much we know of a situation, only can read a person 's figurative heart.
For 1958, I marry Lene, one sister from Denmark but e de stay for London.		In 1958, I married Lene, a Danish sister who had settled in London.
For example, the sin fit be sey person play brother or sister wayo for business matter or sey e talk wetin go spoil another person name. - w16.05, p.		For example, the sin might be slander, or it might involve fraud. - w16.05, p.
For the study wey I think sey na the last one, e come tell me wetin dey im mind.		At what I thought would be our last Bible study, Tessie opened her heart to me.
Hans and Brook na husband and wife wey be pioneer for United States. Dem dey around 30 years.		Hans and Brook, a pioneer couple in their 30 ' s, are serving in the United States.
How Isaiah 40: 29 fit make our mind strong, but which serious mistake person fit make?		What encouragement can we draw from Isaiah 40: 29, but what serious mistake could we make?
How our preaching work de make the name of God holy?		In what way does our preaching work sanctify God 's name?
How wicked people take dey affect us now?		How do wicked people affect us now?
I come from poor family wey dey do farm work. Na only five years I spend for school.		I grew up in a lowly peasant family and had just five years of schooling.
If bird want fly come down, dem dey arrange special place for am to land?		Do birds need special landing strips?
If dem see sey person no want give dem money, dem go make am hard for the person to get wetin e suppose get or e fit no get am at all.		When tips are not forthcoming, officials may deliberately create obstacles to make it very difficult, if not impossible, for citizens to obtain what is their legal right.
Instead, dem fit hope sey one day their pikin go come back to.		They can also hope that the wayward child will one day come " home " to.
don still do other things for us.		Consider what else has done for his people.
example teach us sey make we no dey carry talk. E good make we think well before we do or talk something.		s exercise of self - control teaches us that we too ought to weigh our words and consider our steps carefully; we should not rush into things.
Like me, dem need time to come know sey wetin dem believe no correct.		Just like me, they needed time to realize that what they believed was wrong.
Na 51 years we don work for together as husband and wife, and we no regret am.		We have enjoyed 51 years of satisfying service together as a married couple.
Na my mind I go take love dem. ' ( Hos.		I will love them of my own free will. "
Na only God good, no other person. '		Nobody is good except one, God. "
Na our conscience go help us, if we train - am the right way.		That is where our Bible - trained conscience comes into play.
Na so because another time when e go preach for Samaria, the people listen. - Acts 8: 14, 25.		It could be that the apostle John felt embarrassed about his rash outburst when he later enjoyed a successful preaching campaign among the Samaritans. - Acts 8: 14, 25.
Na that kind life Sakura live till e reach 23 years.		This way of life continued until Sakura was 23 years old.
Na true sey you no go fit run kpatakpata from all the quarrel with your family people.		Of course, you cannot expect to avoid all disagreements with your unbelieving relatives.
Number one, know the one wey dey important pass.		First, prioritize.
One way na to control wetin we dey look.		An important way to do so is by controlling what we look at.
People for the Sanhedrin hate Jesus and na dem join hand kill am.		As a group, the Sanhedrin was hostile to Jesus.
Plenty family de watch JW Broadcasting every month.		Many include watching JW Broadcasting sometime during the month.
So, wetin we go do if we be that brother wey people dey praise for im talk?		A haughty attitude surfaced in that he " did not respond appreciatively to the good done to him. "
Some letter wey dey inside The Watch Tower show sey, even if some Bible Student dem for Germany join army, dem still want preach.		Letters printed in The Watch Tower indicate that a number of other German Bible Students felt compelled to share the good news of the Kingdom while in the military.
Sometimes, you fit think sey dem no treat you well or dem no treat person wey you know for congregation well.		On rare occasions, you or someone you know may experience or observe what seems to be an injustice in the congregation.
That one fit make you come dey think sey: ' As e be sey I don already change the bad things for my life wey God no like, why this small one come dey hard me?		If so, you may wonder: ' Having made big changes already, why is it so hard for me to keep making smaller adjustments?
The letter wey Franz Rieter write give im mama, the night before dem kill am, show sey the brother faith strong well well and sey e put all im hope for. And I want be like am if that kind wahala come my side. " - Check endnote.		The letter he wrote to his mother the night before he died showed tremendous faith and confidence in, and I wanted to follow his example if I faced such a trial. " - See endnote.
The one wey better pass be sey, their visit dey make our faith strong.		Every experience has been a delight - fun and, most of all, spiritually edifying.
The place wey we dey stay still dey affect how we dey behave.		We may also have been deeply influenced by our environment.
This earth go turn to paradise. Everybody wey do wetin God talk no go get sin for body again. God family for heaven and earth go be one.		The earth will be transformed into a paradise, and all faithful humans will be lifted to perfection, fully uniting the heavenly and earthly parts of God 's family.
This one fit don make Barzillai happy. If e do wetin David tell am, e for continue to enjoy life with king.		Accepting David 's invitation would have allowed him to continue to enjoy the king 's association.
This one really touch my mind and e come make me love and Bible pass before. I come get mind to continue to tell people the truth wey dey Bible.		This touched me emotionally and spiritually, making me more determined than ever to promote the truth from God 's Word.
True true, na person wey get better sense go fit make something wey hard.		Yes, complex designs are the product of an intelligent mind.
We come go hotel.		We went to a hotel and asked for a room.
We go fit enjoy peace with.		Having a peaceful relationship with God.
We no dey shame to tell people sey our Leader no be human being.		In many religions, one man or one woman acts as leader, or chief.
Wetin be some of dem? If person dey carry shoulder up, dey open eye do bad things, and no get faith again, e fit come get strong head.		They include inordinate pride, the practice of sin, and a lack of faith.
Wetin de help Madison?		How does she cope?
Wetin dey Brother Russell mind when dem start?		Initially, Brother Russell 's goal was to ascertain which of the prevailing religions was teaching the truth.
Wetin fit happen if we dey bear suffer?		What does our faithfulness under trial accomplish?
Wetin we learn?		What is the lesson for us?
When children don big, dem fit talk sey dem go serve well for congregation wey dey use language wey dem understand well.		Adult children may come to realize that they could better serve in a congregation that uses the language that they understand best.
When im husband tell im family people sey if e tell im wife make e come after " im witness meeting, " e go come; dem tell am sey, " E no go come; witness people no dey do birthday! "		Meanwhile, when her husband told his relatives that at his request his wife would join them after attending her " Witness meeting, " they replied, " She won 't come; 's do not celebrate birthdays! "
When the woman come collect im cloth, e ask this sister many question. E ask am question about why God make human being, and wetin dey happen to person wey don die.		Aksamai came to Elizabeth for some clothing but asked many questions about the meaning of life and the condition of the dead.
Which special work God give Paul?		What special ministry was Paul given?
Which time God go resurrect dem, and which place e go resurrect dem put?		When and where will they be raised?
Why e be sey prayer fit help us bear any problem and continue to serve well?		Why can prayer help us to keep faithful and to endure trials?
You go get the mind to tell your oga sey you no fit come? If you get strong mind for this matter, you dey show your children better example.		Courage is required to turn down such regular requests and set the right example for your children.
You go like preach for this kind place?		Would you like to serve in such a territory?
before, but for my mind Watchtower too get deep things.		magazines from them before, but I generally felt that The Watchtower was a bit too deep for my taste.
Jesus no tell im disciples to carry sword wey dem go use protect theirself.		Jesus did not urge his followers to get swords for protection.
And we fit tell to give us im spirit anytime wey we need am.		Happily, we can have access to it whenever we need it - 24 hours a day.
Martha and im sister, Mary, know sey Jesus go fit heal person wey dey sick.		Both Martha and her sister, Mary, were aware that Jesus could cure the sick.
For the next topic, we go see how the city wey arrange fit help us copy im character: ( 1 ) How e take dey judge matter well, and ( 2 ) how e take dey pity for person.		In the next article, we will see how the cities of refuge can help us to imitate 's superlative example of justice and mercy.
How the love wey Daniel get for take help us know the kind people wey im papa and mama be?		Daniel 's godly devotion as a youth reveals what about his upbringing?
Wetin Hannah promise, why e promise am, and wetin come happen?		What did Hannah vow, and why, and how did it turn out for her?
Wetin we go gain if we dey give wetin we get to support work?		What blessings do we receive when we give in support of the Kingdom?
Why we de tell people the good news?		What moves us to preach to our neighbors?
Why e no good to fight or cause trouble, even if they no de treat us well?		Why does injustice not justify violence?
Phil. 3: 17 ) If we dey think about wetin Bible talk, e go help us fit know wetin want make we dey do and e go help us fit choose wetin e like.		Bearing in mind what the Scriptures say can help us perceive 's thinking on this matter and can guide us in making decisions that please him.
Those things no fit really make us happy because dem no dey last. We no go fit take that one compare the work wey we dey do for. E dey make us happy to help other people learn about and wetin e promise us.		Compared to the lasting joy that comes from helping people to benefit from God 's wisdom so that they can gain everlasting life, a secular career can provide only limited satisfaction.
How Paul take explain sey Bible study fit make person do well for preaching?		How did Paul connect study of the Scriptures with a productive ministry?
Job 2: 2 - 6 ) Wetin make am still dey wait? Na because e no want destroy anybody ' but e want make everybody repent. ' - 2 Pet.		has allowed time to pass because he does not want anyone to be destroyed but " desires all to attain to repentance. " - 2 Pet.
E good make we carry ourself down and agree with wetin Bible talk, when e sey: ' E no dey for person hand to direct im way.		We must humbly acknowledge the truthfulness of the inspired words: " Man 's way does not belong to him.
If elders disfellowship the person, and we support dem, we go join make the congregation clean and e fit make the person come back to.		When we support the elders ' decision to disfellowship an unrepentant wrongdoer, we help to maintain the cleanness of the congregation and perhaps move the person to repent and seek 's forgiveness.
don give Jesus Christ the work to bring people wey don die come life again.		has given Jesus an important share in resurrecting the dead.
For Bible, Jude talk about people wey go dey do bad things sotey God spirit go leave dem. - Jude 18, 19.		Jude spoke of those who would deteriorate even to the point of " not having spirituality. " - Jude 18, 19.
Today, how take dey help people make dem come back to am?		How is helping people to become reconciled to him today?
After about one year, I begin serve as helper to the Service Committee of the Governing Body of Witness.		After a year or so, I began serving as a helper to the Service Committee of the Governing Body of 's.
After the school, dem come send me go do special pioneer work for small time, for Bronx wey dey New York City.		After I graduated, I was temporarily assigned as a special pioneer in the Bronx in New York City.
And how we fit help other people get true peace?		And how may we help others to do so?
Another thing be sey na the correct thing dey make us preach - the love wey we get for and our neighbor, no be money.		Our preaching work is being done with the right motive - love, not financial gain.
Anytime wey I come from meeting, I no de doubt say love me. "		I always come away from the meetings knowing that loves me. "
Apostle John talk the same thing when e warn us sey, if anybody like the things wey dey this world - ' wetin our body want and wetin our eye want and to dey show wetin we get ' - na im be sey, ' e no like the Papa. '		The apostle John made much the same point when he warned that if anyone loves the things in the world - " the desire of the flesh and the desire of the eyes and the showy display of one 's means of life " - then " the love of the Father is not in him. "
As dey bless the preaching work for many place for the world, we come need more people wey go do missionary work.		As the worldwide preaching work mushroomed, a call went out for missionaries.
Bible talk sey dem be like mountain and island wey people dey feel sey nothing fit scatter.		The Bible uses mountains and islands to picture many of the organizations and institutions that seem so solid to mankind today.
Bible talk sey na papa and mama suppose dey teach their children about. ( Prov.		Scripturally, the primary responsibility to teach and train young ones lies with the parents.
But, dem get am for mind sey dem must preach the good news about God Kingdom.		However, they were determined to declare the good news.
But dem no let me go.		I, however, remained a captive.
But for 1971, organisation make am clear sey the main work wey Governing Body dey do, different from the one wey Watch Tower Society dey do.		However, in 1971, the Governing Body was distinguished from the Watch Tower Society - a legal instrument rather than a Scriptural entity - and its directors.
But no matter the reason wey we get, remember sey no vex for the people wey ask am this question for Bible time. This one fit make our mind come down.		Whatever the cause, how encouraging it is to know that 's faithful servants in the past felt free to express the same question that may loom in our minds, and they were not condemned for asking it!
But wetin you fit do so that the one mind wey we get go continue?		How can we promote unity among God 's people?
But when I dey the convent, e come dey do me like sey no be the things wey I get for mind to do, I go fit do.		But at the convent, I felt that I could not do many of the things I wanted to do.
Cyril and Kitty Johnson na pioneers wey fit leave anything so that dem go get chance do work.		Cyril and Kitty Johnson were typical of self - sacrificing new pioneers.
E come ask sey: ' Who fit bear the cold? '		Then, referring to as ' sending the snow, scattering the frost, and hurling down the hailstones, ' the psalmist asks: " Who can withstand his cold? "
E come mean sey Romans chapter 8 concern only people wey dey go heaven?		But does Romans chapter 8 apply only to anointed ones?
E don tey wey promise sey e go destroy this world and now the time don near well well.		This wicked world has long since been condemned, and its execution is now close at hand.
E go come life again with better body for Paradise.		In the meantime, his acts of faith live on until he stands up alive and whole in the Paradise. "
E no fit force im children wey don grow make dem do wetin e teach dem about.		What about faithful parents whose children have gone astray?
E sey: " When I remember wetin happen, I fit talk sey we see how take help us, and this one make our faith strong. "		Looking back, I can say that it has been a faith - strengthening experience to see 's hand at work in our lives.
Even if e don reach like 20 years wey Irene don dey use the language preach, e sey: ' I still never sabi speak the language well. '		I still do not speak Russian perfectly, " Irene admits.
For example, e choose Israel people to be im ' special property, ' make dem dey answer im name.		For example, he chose to select the nation of Israel as his name people, " his special property. "
For example, e write letter give the congregation for Colossae. For the letter, e tell dem about some brothers wey dey follow Moses Law and no gree get faith for Jesus Christ.		For example, he wrote to the congregation in Colossae about false Christians who were trying to gain God 's favor through works of the Law rather than through faith in Christ.
For example, when pikin dey learn how to ride bicycle, im papa or mama dey hold the bicycle make e no fall.		We have to learn it.
For example, you need to teach your children to do wetin Bible talk when e sey make children dey obey their ' papa and mama. '		For instance, you need to teach your children to obey the Bible 's command: " Honor your father and your mother. "
For the book Answer to 10 Question Wey Dey Worry Young People for Mind, e get one topic wey be " Wetin I Go Do if Person Dey Worry Me Make I Sleep With Am? "		The worksheet will guide you in preparing your own answer. It provides three scriptures you can use when explaining your conviction - Hebrews 3: 4, Romans 1: 20, and Psalm 139: 14.
For the first topic, we go see wetin e mean for God spirit to dey direct person. We go still see wetin we fit learn from the example of people wey let God spirit direct dem.		In the first of these two articles, we will see what spirituality is and what we can learn from exemplary spiritual people.
For the whole day, we dey move the boat from one place go another place go visit people.		We would row ashore and visit the people all day long.
Go check October 15, 2013 Watchtower, pp.		See The Watchtower, October 15, 2013, pp.
How? One thing be sey all the different different people for this world, get how dem dey dress.		Styles and customs vary not only in different parts of the world but also from one decade to the next.
How the thing wey get for mind go take happen?		How will 's purpose be fulfilled?
How we fit train ourself to know wetin like, even for matter wey Bible law no dey?		How can we train our conscience to have a godly sense of decency?
How we go take show sey we love God word?		How can we show our love for God 's Word?
I come still beg Felisa, my sister, sey mek e forgive me for the things wey I tell am, wey pain am.		I also asked my sister Felisa to forgive me for saying unkind things to her.
I de think deep about - am the whole day.		I ponder over it all day long.
I like how dem dey talk and the way dem take dey explain Bible.		Their abilities in speaking and explaining Bible truths impressed me.
I no be like people wey dey use wayo collect people things or people wey dey do bad things. I no be like people wey don marry wey dey sleep with another person or even like this tax collector. ' But the tax collector dey pray for imself make God pity am.		Jesus highlighted their attitude toward offenders by relating an illustration of a Pharisee who prayed: " O God, I thank you that I am not like everyone else - extortioners, unrighteous, adulterers - or even like this tax collector " - a tax collector who was humbly praying for God 's mercy.
I thank sey e dey use im organization dey help us do wetin e like every day even for this wicked world. "		I am very grateful to for using his organization to help us survive each day in this wicked system. "
James see as some Christians don begin do things as people of the world, and e want correct them. ( Jas.		Some Christians were becoming spiritual adulteresses by having friendship with the world.
Jesus enemy dem ask am sey: ' Why e be sey your disciples dey chop food with dirty hand? Why dem no dey follow our people tradition wey don dey, tey tey? '		Jesus ' opponents asked him: " Why do your disciples not observe the tradition of the men of former times, but they eat their meal with defiled hands? "
Jesus talk about the wahala wey people wey dey follow am go bear. One of dem na family wahala. ( Matt.		Jesus included the pain of family opposition as part of the suffering that his followers must be willing to endure.
Job no be Israel person.		Job was not an Israelite.
Like Noah, make we try get ' plenty work wey we fit dey do ' for.		Like Noah, we strive to have " plenty to do in the work of the Lord. "
Many sisters wey don preach for another country talk sey e no first easy for dem to go.		Many sisters who have served abroad were initially hesitant about moving to a foreign land.
Na money wey people dey donate na im we take dey support the work wey we dey do to help people for the whole world.		Our worldwide Bible educational work and humanitarian activities are supported by voluntary donations.
Na so Satan dey do.		Satan does this.
Na there Stephany wey dey 19 years that time, meet Paul Norton.		There, Stephany, then 19, met Paul Norton, a young Bethelite.
No only put eye for the bad thing wey e do. Ask yourself sey: Why this person be like this?		Take into consideration a wrongdoer 's background, his motives, and his limitations.
No only think sey Jesus die for everybody.		Do not simply acknowledge the ransom 's value in helping vast numbers of people.
One Saturday evening, when I dey five years, me and my papa dey give people wey dey pass Watchtower and Consolation ( wey be Awake!		One Saturday evening when I was five years old, I was with my father, offering the Watchtower and Consolation ( now Awake! )
One of the first thing wey we learn na wetin God talk for Genesis 3: 15.		One of the first things we learned was the prophecy at Genesis 3: 15.
Our pikin go do well if we dey tell dem better word ( Check paragraph 14 )		Our children thrive when we warmly encourage them ( See paragraph 14 )
Person fit obey if e no get love? Explain.		How are obedience and love connected?
So, wetin happen when the brother reach there?		How did that visit turn out?
So e come hard many brothers to fit preach well. Even with this one, dem no stop to preach - dem do everything wey dem fit do.		In spite of these and other challenges, however, the Bible Students as a whole did their best to keep the work going.
Some of this brothers ' dey deceive people wey dey quick believe. ' ( Rom.		Some of them were ' seducing unsuspecting ones. '
Some people too dey worry theirself about some of the mistake wey dem don do before. Dem dey worry because dem no sure sey God don forgive dem.		Some torment themselves over their past behavior and wonder whether God has forgiven them.
Still think about all the things wey we dey learn from Bible every month.		Think, too, about the spiritual food based on the Bible that we receive each month.
That na another better thing wey God give us.		Consider another treasure from God.
The things wey you command de make me get sense pass my enemy. And na because them dey with me forever.		Your commandment makes me wiser than my enemies, because it is with me forever.
This kind people fit tell us sey: " I like anything wey concern God o, but I no want join any religion. " How correct religion take dey make people happy?		Such individuals may say, " I am interested in spiritual matters, but I do not get involved in organized religion. "
This one go help us trust more more as we dey wait for am with better mind.		This will strengthen our trust in him as we wait patiently for him to act in our behalf.
This two topic go help us value the correction wey our Papa dey give us. And we go see how the correction take show sey e really love us.		These two articles will help us to appreciate more fully the depth of God 's love for us as reflected in his fatherly discipline.
Today, plenty plenty people don join Jesus brothers " the people wey dem give the work. "		Today, Christ 's brothers " to whom the work is entrusted " have been joined by millions who zealously preach the word while they await the Messianic golden age.
Two of dem don be company servant ( wey we dey call coordinator of body of elders now ) before for our small congregation wey dey where dem dey call Conde for South Dakota.		My dad, Clarence, and later my uncle Alfred, served as company servant ( now called coordinator of the body of elders ) in our small congregation in Conde, South Dakota.
We don see sey we go gain many better things, if we know where we suppose do reach.		Since modesty has so many advantages, how can we cultivate it to an even greater degree?
Wetin David do to be friend again?		How did David recover spiritually?
Wetin dey happen because people no love God?		What has resulted from the loss of love for God?
Wetin help am?		What helped him to cope?
Wetin person wey dey wahala imself no fit do?		What can an anxious person never do?
Wetin we fit learn from the way Jesus treat im apostles?		What can we learn from the way Jesus treated his apostles?
Wetin we learn from the example of Noah and im family?		What example did Noah and his family set for us?
Wetin your papa and mama dey do for no go fit save you, even if you dey stay the same house with dem.		On the contrary, you are now responsible for your own salvation, even if you still live under your parents ' roof.
When I wake, I see myself for one room wey cold well well; no bread, water, or cloth to cover body.		I awoke in an icy cell without bread, water, or a blanket.
When something like heavy rain or breeze scatter property, young people dey join other brothers and sisters wey get experience pass dem, do work.		When natural disasters strike, young people join more experienced in carrying through with relief efforts.
When we dey worry too much about our problem, wetin we go do?		What do we need to do when we are overly worried about a problem, and what can we reasonably expect?
When we want choose wetin we go do, Bible warn us make we no follow our mind wey sin dey control or how we dey feel. ( Prov.		The Bible warns us not to let our imperfect heart or mere sentiment rule when we are making decisions.
Which kind sin Jesus dey talk about for Matthew 18: 15 - 17?		What type of sin was Jesus speaking of in the counsel outlined at Matthew 18: 15 - 17?
Which part of my life I need to change?		In what areas could I improve? '
Which things Satan no get power to do?		What did you learn about our enemy?
Why? ( 1 ) When we overdo, we no dey show sey na dey rule us.		First, when we act immodestly, we fail to honor as our rightful Sovereign.
Why e be sey no be every time we dey fit do wetin like?		Why are we unable to please in everything we do?
You fit dey wonder if dem go listen to you.		You have no idea how they will react.
na the ' interview. '		is the ' Interview ' article. "
You believe wetin e talk? '		Do you believe what it says? '
E be like sey na wetin don dey happen to the congregations for many years.		The congregations were apparently " in a rut, " continuing at a pace set many years before.
How dem go fit do this work finish?		How could they possibly complete that assignment?
The way dem take show this people love, mean sey dem really know sey to ' welcome stranger ' na to ' dey treat dem well. '		The loving concern of Jewish Christians for fellow believers from other lands showed that they understood the meaning of the word " hospitality, " that is, " kindness to strangers. "
If we really love our brothers, we no need to " broadcast " wetin we do for dem.		In contrast, genuine love moves us to find joy in serving our brothers without fanfare or recognition.
Wetin we go talk about for this topic?		What will we consider in this article?
At last, Jesus Christ use im mouth talk sey na im be the ' Leader ' wey go lead God people.		Finally, Jesus Christ identified himself as " the Leader " of God 's people.
How Israel people take win Jabin army?		How did Israel defeat Jabin 's army?
How Jesus make us understand say partial no good?		How did Jesus teach a lesson in overcoming racial prejudice?
If brother or sister do wetin vex us, wetin we fit do make peace dey?		What can help us to preserve peace if a fellow Christian upsets us?
Wetin fit be the reason why Jesus want make the apostles remain as one?		Why might Jesus have been concerned about unity?
Apart from that one, if person attack us, fear fit still dey catch the person. So if the person see sey we get gun, something fit happen wey fit make person die.		Moreover, if an attacker - who may already be tense - sees that the other person has a firearm, the situation is very likely to escalate and a death might result.
don give us this work because e trust us. E believe sey we fit do am and use am praise im name. - Read 1 Peter 4: 10.		has entrusted us with a stewardship that comes with honor, trust, and responsibility. - Read 1 Peter 4: 10.
This one go don pain Daniel and other people wey dey serve!		How this must have hurt faithful Jews like Daniel!
What if dem disfellowship person for your family? You still need to control yourself, so that you no go dey do things with dem like before.		If you have disfellowshipped relatives, you may need to control your feelings in order to avoid unnecessary contact with them.
We still de preach from house to house and for public so that we go fit warn plenty people say small time, the Kingdom of God go destroy all wicked people. - Ezek.		At the same time, when we preach from house to house and in public areas, we warn as many people as possible that God 's Kingdom will come and bring an end to this ungodly world. - Ezek.
Make we use all our mind and power do wetin we promise for prayer before we baptize.		May we zealously continue to live up to our dedication vow - to 's delight.
Continue to Dey Tell Each Other Better Word Everyday '		Keep On Encouraging One Another Each Day "
You believe sey if you follow wetin that verse talk e go help you?		Do you really believe that?
Abeg, call the branch office for the country wey you dey if you want know how you go take contribute.		To learn the name of the primary legal entity used by 's in the country where you live, please contact the branch office.
After like one week, the young man talk sey ' Na now I believe sey God dey. '		A week or so later, the young man acknowledged, " Now I believe in God. "
After small time wey we go meeting, the brothers come ask us whether we want baptize.		After just a few meetings, the brothers asked me and others, " Do you want to get baptized? "
All of us need word wey go make us strong especially as we dey grow.		All of us need encouragement. That is especially true when we are growing up.
And before that time come, e go suffer and die.		And before then, he would have to suffer and die.
And help am see sey go bless am well well if e do wetin e promise am. For example, better advice dey the ending of the book wey dem dey call Questions Young People Ask - Answers That Work, Volume 1.		For example, helpful advice can be found in the appendix entitled " Questions Parents Ask, " at the back of the book Questions Young People Ask - Answers That Work, Volume 1.
And this one really make their mind come down.		also lovingly provided for them materially.
As dem dey fight for one place wey dem dey call Taanach, heavy rain start to fall; everywhere come full with water and potopoto.		During the main battle in Taanach, a sudden cloudburst turned the surroundings into a marsh.
As we dey wait make government give us ' permit ' wey go let us stay for the country, we first stay for hotel.		We stayed in a boardinghouse while awaiting residence authorization.
As we don know this one, make we talk wetin make dem change am.		That said, the revised wording is based on the following factors:
Because of this one, brothers and sisters need to hear better word so that their faith go strong. We need - am now, even pass as e be for time wey Paul dey this earth. - Col. 4: 11, ftn.		How much more so do brothers and sisters today need strengthening as we face Satan 's intense attack against God 's people. - Col. 4: 11, ftn.
Before we answer this question, e good make we know wetin joy really mean.		To answer that question, we first need to understand what genuine joy is and how others have remained joyful despite trials.
Brothers wey don baptize, abeg, make una get strong mind and put body for any work wey give una!		We urge all baptized brothers to be courageous and work hard for the congregation!
But, wetin dem go choose fit make dem live or die.		Yet, their choice could come down to a matter of life or death.
But, you fit still think of different different way wey don take bless you and other people wey near you.		Yet, you can likely think of ways in which has rewarded you and those around you.
But because dem serve God well, e still dey remember dem.		But Daniel was still alive.
But dem no know sey for person to fit do wetin e want, and to get the right to talk sey something good or e bad, na two different things.		In saying so, they are confusing the exercise of one 's free will with the right to decide what is good and what is bad.
But e get one anointed brother wey dey stay with us wey senior us.		But with us was Eldon Woodworth, an older anointed brother.
But person wey dey do like that no dey follow the things wey person wey want use our website suppose do.		However, doing so violates the Terms of Use * for our websites and has caused serious problems.
But to fit do am, you go need to reduce the time wey you take dey do things wey no too dey important.		You may, of course, need to be willing to limit some optional activities.
Dem be Witness and dem give me the book.		They were 's, and they offered me that book.
Dem come use all their power sing: " Send out thy light and truth, O Lord. "		Then, " with a zest and zeal known only by those who follow in the footsteps of Jesus, " they sang: " Send out thy light and truth, O Lord. "
Dem do am to John and apostle Paul. ( 2 Cor.		John 's authority was challenged; so was that of the apostle Paul.
Dem fit dey fear sey people no go praise dem for the work wey people wey dem train do.		They fear that they will not get credit for what is done.
Dem no dey let advert or people make dem buy wetin dem no need. Dem dey remember wetin Bible talk, when e sey: ' Person wey dey owe, na slave to who e dey owe. ' ( Prov.		Resisting the pressures of advertising and the world around them, they remember the principle: " The borrower is a slave to the lender. "
E don tey wey people dey talk about this matter.		People have debated this subject for centuries.
E get better character well well.		He had many desirable qualities.
E no tey, things come dey get head small small.		Before long, things began to improve.
E still sey: ' Una no fit serve God and money. '		He added: " You cannot slave for God and for Riches. "
E talk sey if e too poor, e fit go thief and that one no go make God happy.		As he went on to explain, he did not want to be tempted to steal because theft would dishonor God.
Even self, some of our brothers wey come from family wey quarrel full don dey enjoy love now for congregation.		Moreover, in this setting, those of us who grew up in loveless, dysfunctional families finally experience real love.
For 1941, dem come release Nicholas from prison when the army wey dem dey call Allied army enter Greece.		Fortunately, early in 1941, the Allied army briefly entered Greece and Nicolas was released from jail.
For 33 years, me and my wife do circuit work, district work, and we arrange different different convention.		For 33 years, Angie and I enjoyed both circuit and district work, including a good deal of preconvention and convention work.
For example, March 1, 1902 Zion 's Watch Tower talk about one book wey dem dey call ' Acts of Paul and Thecla. '		For example, Zion 's Watch Tower of March 1, 1902, mentioned one, saying: " As to Paul 's personal appearance:.
For family to strong, dem need to get better sense.		Practical wisdom can safeguard families.
From where we dey stay to where the island dey, far pass 5,500 miles ( 9,000 km ).		The people there responded to the Kingdom message.
Harry Peterson like preaching well well		Harry Peterson had outstanding zeal for the ministry
How organization take dey use the money wey people contribute?		How does the organization use the money that is donated today?
How life be for this brothers wey go back to Turkey? The truth be sey, things hard sometimes.		What do need - greaters who have been in Turkey for a while say about their life there?
How tribe of Reuben, Dan, and Asher take different from Zebulun and Naphtali?		How did the attitude of the tribes of Reuben, Dan, and Asher differ from that of Zebulun and Naphtali?
How we fit get real freedom?		How can we gain true freedom?
I for like make that work continue.		I would happily have stayed in that work.
I know sey e dey hungry to comot all our problem. E go give us another better work for paradise. All this one dey make my mind come down.		I have found it truly comforting to know that is waiting patiently to remedy matters and to give us exciting assignments in his new world.
I learn how to roof house, fix window, and door.		I learned to install roofs, windows, and doors.
If dem correct us wetin we go do?		How will we respond to it?
If e no come from our mind, we fit just dey tell dem only wetin go make their head big. And we fit no correct dem even when we suppose correct dem. ( Prov.		Otherwise, we could actually be flattering the person or avoiding our responsibility to provide needed counsel.
If to sey no dey patient, e for no tell us make we dey patient.		With regard to exercising patience, does not expect us to do something that he is not willing to do himself.
If we dey control ourself, how e go take help us do wetin we plan to do for?		How can self - discipline help us to reach a spiritual goal?
Instead, dem dey among the plenty people wey dey follow Jesus.		Rather, " there were many of them who were following [ Jesus ]. "
come tell Elijah sey: ' Because e don carry body down for me, no be im time I go do wetin I sey I want do am.		told Elijah: " Because he has humbled himself before me, I will not bring the calamity during his lifetime.
dey bless im organization and many people dey come serve am. This one dey make how we dey do things for organization change.		The earthly part of 's organization is growing in many ways, but growth necessitates change.
dey give us plenty things for this our time pass before. Na so plenty people wey don dey serve tey tey dey talk.		Many longtime servants of have been heard to say that they have never seen a time like this with so many spiritual provisions. Just think!
no go ever forget the things wey we dey do to show sey we love am!		will never forget the love that we show for him!
people dey plenty more more even though sey dem dey this world wey Satan, the ' god of this world, ' dey control.		The progress of God 's people is taking place in a very hostile world, which the Bible says is controlled by Satan, " the god of this system of things. "
Jesus example show sey person wey no get sin for body fit continue to do wetin talk.		By being loyal, Jesus proved that a perfect human could maintain perfect obedience to God 's righteous standards.
Jim talk wetin happen: " I tell dem sey dem no get love, I come waka leave dem for the meeting. "		Jim relates: " I told the brothers that they were not loving, and I left the meeting. "
Job put as the number one person for im life.		Job rejected all forms of idolatry - even in his heart.
Make we dey try do everything wey we fit do to dey get better character like, to dey control ourself, to dey endure, and to love our brothers and sisters. This one go help us continue to be friend.		As we " put forth all earnest effort " to develop such qualities as self - control, endurance, and brotherly affection, we will be helped to continue to move ahead as spiritually - minded individuals.
Make we first see wetin Micah 6: 9 talk, that place talk sey: ' People wey get better sense go fear [ God ] name. '		First, note that Micah 6: 9 says: " Those with practical wisdom will fear [ God 's ] name. "
Make we keep am well, so that we fit see am read anytime wey we want read am ( Check paragraph 15 )		It may be helpful to collect and review scriptures and articles that deal with your weaknesses ( See paragraph 15 )
Make we talk about six things wey we fit learn from Timothy example.		Consider six lessons you can draw from his example.
Me, go quick do am by myself when the time reach. '		I myself, will speed it up in its own time. "
Na only God Kingdom we dey support.		We are neutral in these matters.
Na so e still be with enjoyment.		Similarly, a steady diet of recreation and entertainment will weaken our spiritual health.
Na this one make apostle Paul tell dem sey make dem no forget sey their God na one. - Read 1 Corinthians 8: 5, 6.		The apostle Paul found it fitting to remind them that Christians have one God,. - Read 1 Corinthians 8: 5, 6.
Na true sey the way take mek all of us different, na ' im mek we fit dey enjoy and we like as we different.		Of course, made us all different from one another, and we can enjoy and admire this variety.
No think about wetin go favor only yourself, but still dey think about wetin go favor other people. " - Phil.		Do nothing out of contentiousness or out of egotism, but with humility consider others superior to you, as you look out not only for your own interests, but also for the interests of others. " - Phil.
Nobody get right to carry anything from our website go put for another website		No one may post our copyrighted publications on other Internet sites
Our meeting dey help us get one mind like one family - family wey really love theirself.		Our meetings help us to be united as a loving family.
Our motor and small house wey get tire		Our car and camper trailer
People wey no dey carry shoulder up dey make happy well well.		It is described as " lowliness of mind. "
Satan de use different - different things set trap for us like, sex wey God no like, to dey proud, and things about demons ( Check paragraph 12, 13 )		Satan tries to bait us with immorality, unhealthy pride, and the occult ( See paragraphs 12, 13 )
So, I no believe sey e fit do that kind thing.		So, what he did seemed unreal.
Some of dem fit dey use wetin we believe take dey do yeye. Dem fit talk sey we dey cause katakata for family.		Some might ridicule our beliefs, accuse us of dividing the family, or threaten to disown us unless we give up our faith.
Some people don see sey, for the whole world, money wey only one person get, plenty reach 99 people own! Whether this number correct, we no know.		According to recent estimates, the richest 1 percent of the earth 's population have as much wealth as the rest of its inhabitants combined.
The brother talk sey: " When we newly come our congregation, one sister show us different place where things no too dey cost.		When we arrived in our new congregation, " says Carlos, " a sister gave us a list of stores that have reasonable prices.
The circuit cover the whole Bicol region for Philippines.		I was later transferred to a circuit that covered the entire Bicol region.
The man come use question test Peter. E ask am sey: ' So, my boy, which language dem take write the book of Daniel? '		To test Peter, the rabbi asked, " So, my boy, what language was the book of Daniel written in? "
This one no fit happen.		The answer is no.
This things go help us learn better things from our personal study and family worship.		These tools are designed to help us get the most out of our personal and family study.
We dey learn for our meeting.		Meetings educate us.
We don see sey as people wey dey serve God, we must know where we suppose do reach. really value people wey no dey overdo things.		For these reasons, modesty still matters to all of God 's people, and treasures those who cultivate it.
We go get true peace only if we no de worry too much, and we no de fear even with plenty problem for the world.		In order to enjoy real peace, we must feel safe and have a sense of well - being.
We thank for everything. " - Read Acts 10: 34, 35.		We are so thankful to. " - Read Acts 10: 34, 35.
Wetin want make you get for mind before you plan?		What does recommend for you?
Wetin Jesus tell im apostle, especially Peter, to help dem?		What encouragement did Jesus give to his apostles and to Peter in particular?
Wetin dey Psalm 64: 1 - 4 really touch me because I no want be the kind person wey people go dey beg for their prayer sey make I no near dem!		Psalm 64: 1 - 4 made me realize that I did not want to be one from whom others pray to be safeguarded!
Wetin you go gain if you pioneer?		What could a life in the pioneer service lead to?
When our person die, brothers and sisters for congregation fit still help us.		Another source of comfort to grieving ones is the Christian congregation.
When person do bad thing, how elders go take show sey dem dey judge matter well like?		How should elders reflect divine justice when judging cases of wrongdoing?
When your children see sey you dey ' put God Kingdom first, ' dem go sabi trust to give dem wetin dem need. ( Matt.		When your children see you " seeking first the Kingdom, " they learn to depend on for their daily needs.
Which experience show sey wetin dey Matthew 11: 28 - 30 na true?		Relate an experience that illustrates the truthfulness of Matthew 11: 28 - 30.
Which other better way we fit help people to make their mind come down?		What is a particularly effective way to provide consolation?
You go just get one kind power again. And that one go make you ready to face any problem.		Refreshed - and better prepared to deal with life 's trials.
You no think sey you suppose follow example?		Are we not drawn to by such loyal love?
paragraph 3 ) E get some brothers and sisters wey no dey fit dey come meeting everytime because of how their condition be.		paragraph 3 ) Some of our brothers and sisters cannot go to the meetings regularly because of circumstances that they cannot control.
Yes, even though Jesus Christ dey heaven, use am lead Im people.		Yes, under his Head, God, the invisible and glorified Christ Jesus was leading the congregation.
So if you be papa or mama, make you no tire to teach your pikin. Dey sofri teach dem about. ( Eph.		So parents, do not give up on your children, but teach them patiently.
Today, children wey dey do wetin want, fit make their family mind come down. Dem fit help their family bear any problem wey dem dey face now, or the one wey dey come.		On a more personal level, children who pursue true worship can prove to be sources of comfort in their families, helping all to endure present trials and then to survive something greater than the Flood.
Jesus happy sey e fit make God name clean.		Jesus certainly found joy in being able to sanctify God 's name.
So, make all of us go check and use the power wey we take dey think, know whether wetin we believe na really true.		Hence, all of us must examine the evidence and use our thinking ability to reach sound conclusions.
Bible call love " the law of king. " ( Jas.		Jesus ' half brother James called love " the royal law. "
How you go take do am?		What does that involve?
But, when Luke dey mention the family name wey Mary come from, why e no write sey Mary na Heli pikin?		But why does Luke not list Mary in his genealogy as the daughter of Heli, her father?
Wetin we fit do to spoil Satan plan?		How can we frustrate Satan 's goal to weaken us?
Wetin Bible sey make children dey do?		What do the Scriptures admonish children to do?
Jesus no talk this story so that im disciples go begin play wayo or do wetin no good to survive.		Jesus, of course, was not encouraging his disciples to act in an unrighteous way in order to survive in this world.
When Israel people obey, dem dey live together and dey do things well.		When they obeyed, the Israelites were organized and unified.
Question From People Wey Dey Read Our Book		Questions From Readers
What about human being, know us?		What about his human creatures on earth?
So, you no think say e good make we de greet people no matter their skin color, their culture, or who they be?		Would it not, then, be good for us to greet others irrespective of their race, culture, or background?
So no matter how things be, get am for mind sey go fit help you do wetin you promise am. - Read Philippians 4: 11 - 13.		In all situations, you can summon the strength - with 's help - to live up to your dedication. - Read Philippians 4: 11 - 13.
This na better example for people wey dem remove work from their hand for congregation.		What a fine lesson for those who lose privileges of service in God 's congregation today!
E Dey Give Power to Person Wey Don Tire "		He Gives Power to the Tired One "
After one year, my husband come come back. Dem send us go do district work for Scotland, northern England, and Northern Ireland.		When Arthur returned a year later, we were assigned to the district work and covered Scotland, northern England, and Northern Ireland.
And we see how we go take dey near more more if we dey think like Jesus.		Finally, we have learned how having " the mind of Christ " helps us to grow as a spiritual person.
And when all of us dey respect the people wey dey direct us, we dey show sey we respect Jesus, our Leader. - Heb.		All of us show respect for our Leader, Jesus, by being obedient and submissive to the men he is using to direct us. - Heb.
Another thing be sey, that Law teach am how e go take treat everybody, even people wey hate am. - Read Exodus 23: 5; Leviticus 19: 17, 18.		In addition, the Law taught him how to treat others, even those who hated him. - Read Exodus 23: 5; Leviticus 19: 17, 18.
Apart from that one, because of our sin we no reach to get wetin God and Jesus do for us to make us clean.		Moreover, imperfect, sinful humans did not of themselves merit, or deserve, what God and Jesus did in providing a ransom by which forgiveness was possible.
Because na God start marriage.		Because marriage is sacred.
Because the truth wey dey Bible don make many people life better, dem really believe am sey Bible na God word.		Because of its guiding principles, many are convinced that the Bible was inspired by God.
But because Ireland na Catholic country, e come be like sey, ' trouble dey sleep yanga go wake am. '		What " silly " things to do in such a Catholic country!
But sleep carry am. So e fall from the third story of the upstair.		But he dozed off and fell from the third story to the ground below.
But some of servant fit look am sey dem no go fit stay again with who dem marry. E fit be because who dem marry want use beating kill dem or dey tell dem lie about organization wey fit make dem leave.		However, some married Christians have viewed certain situations as a reason for separation, such as the extreme endangerment of one 's life or spirituality by an abusive or apostate spouse.
But the hormone dey make wetin dey that place ( mucus ) thick so that the sperm no go fit pass.		These effects are in addition to that produced by inert IUDs.
But wetin really help dem pass, na some of the branch committee members wey dem send go Japan to encourage dem.		But what strengthened them most were the visits made to the congregation by the representatives of God 's organization.
Dem arrange all the song for the new songbook well, to make am easy to use.		To make " Sing Out Joyfully " to easier to use, the songs are arranged by subject matter.
Dem be the army wey dey heaven wey join scatter Jerusalem reach ground and for Armageddon dem go still join hand finish this wicked world wey Satan dey control.		They picture heavenly forces that were involved in the destruction of Jerusalem and that will also be involved in the destruction of Satan 's wicked system at Armageddon.
Dem dey see theirself as Witness.		They view themselves as 's.
Dem fit don tell am sey God want make only good people full the earth. Noah go don hear about the bad thing wey Adam and Eve do, and e see wetin come out from the bad thing wey dem do. ( Gen.		Perhaps from these men and possibly from their wives, Noah learned about mankind 's start, God 's purpose that a righteous human family fill the earth, and the rebellion in Eden - the results of which Noah could see for himself.
E come back to Kyrgyzstan for 1956.		He accepted the truth and returned home in 1956.
E come dey hungry many people to do regular pioneer.		Many started thinking about full - time service.
E no easy for Didier and Nadine to learn Malagasy language.		For Didier and Nadine, learning the Malagasy language was a challenge.
Everybody wey go this convention happy well well sey dem go. Plenty people dey thank organization for the better things wey dem dey give us.		Many have expressed appreciation for the outstanding benefits they are receiving from 's organization.
For Pentecost 33 C.E., the apostles start to direct things for congregation.		At Pentecost 33 C.E., the apostles began to take the lead in the Christian congregation.
For example, tell im people to build different city wey person fit run go if e kill person by mistake. Wetin we fit learn from that law?		For example, what principles might we discern in the arrangement of cities of refuge?
For example, we no dey play with God law about marriage and sex matter. For some place, this one dey make people talk bad things about us for newspaper and television.		Indeed, even now, our firm stand for God 's laws, such as those concerning marriage and sexual morality, has led to negative publicity in some lands.
For example, what if we ( or person for our family ) dey sick well well or if person lie about us?		For instance, what if we ( or a family member ) were stricken by a serious illness or we were faced with some injustice?
For paragraph three, we talk about the one wey Jesus do near Nain and for Jairus house.		We can see that from the resurrections Jesus performed when outside of Nain and when in the home of Jairus.
For some place, men no like to sing for where people dey.		In some cultures, men may feel uncomfortable singing in public.
For the letter, John call imself ' senior man. '		The writer of Third John calls himself " the older man. "
For this topic, we go answer this three important question: ( 1 ) How we take know sey na love dey make God correct us?		Let us now consider the answers to three important questions: ( 1 ) How does God 's discipline reflect his love for us?
For this topic, we go see nine way wey we fit take show real love. - 2 Cor.		This article will consider nine ways that we can show love that is " free from hypocrisy. " - 2 Cor.
For verse 10 and 13, dey tell im servant dem sey: ' No fear because I dey with you.		In verses 10 and 13, calls out to his servants: " Do not be afraid, for I am with you.
How John letter fit help us copy am?		How can John 's letter help us to do so?
I GROW for one place for Austria wey dem dey call Graz.		I WAS raised in Graz, Austria.
I go use water take destroy everything wey get life for the earth. '		I am going to bring floodwaters upon the earth to destroy from under the heavens all flesh that has the breath of life.
If the water wey dew dey bring no dey, plant go die.		Without the moisture that dew provides, plants become dry and die.
If we dey read for our language, e dey touch our mind pass if we dey read for another language.		When we read in a foreign tongue, our heart may not be as involved as it would be in our own language.
If we love our brothers and sisters we no go dey count how many times dem do us bad, na so 1 Corinthians 13: 5 talk.		Christian love " does not keep account of the injury, " observes 1 Corinthians 13: 5.
dey use love correct us. If we dey carry body down, and be like soft clay for hand, im correction go help us.		Loving discipline can be God 's way of molding us, so let us remain malleable in his hands.
Just because papa and mama love and wetin dem dey learn for Bible, e no mean sey na so their children go be.		Moreover, love for God and for truth is not inherited.
King Solomon write say: " Throw your bread for water, because after plenty days you go see - am again. "		Solomon wrote: " Cast your bread on the waters, for after many days you will find it again. "
Make una no call anybody for this world una Father, because una get one Father for heaven.		Moreover, do not call anyone your father on earth, for one is your Father, the heavenly One.
My character don dey resemble Jesus own?		Is my personality becoming Christlike?
Na " because e no really decide for e heart to look for. " - 2 Chron.		Because " he had not resolved in his heart to search for. " - 2 Chron.
Na Catholic church, im wife and six children dey go. And dem no like as their papa be Witness.		John as well as his five brothers and sisters and their mother were all staunch Roman Catholics and as such were opposed to the father 's faith.
Na im make e write this example dem down for us so that we no go make serious mistake.		So he has provided us with warning examples to help us avoid making serious mistakes.
Na so e still be for people wey dey the road to life wey no go end.		By considering the mistakes of others, we may be helped to avoid making the same errors.
Na the year 1611 dem first translate am, and na one of the English Bible wey people know pass that time.		The King James Version was first produced in 1611.
Nearly all the people wey I study with, that time, na Catholic.		Most of the people I studied with were Catholic.
No be just to thank Gaius make John write letter give am.		John 's reason for writing to Gaius was not just to thank him.
No forget sey whether dem treat you well or dem no treat you well, aproko no go change anything.		Remember, whether we are right or wrong, engaging in hurtful speech will never improve a situation.
Now, e fit talk sey wetin dem choose that time na the correct thing.		In retrospect, Serge thinks that they made the right decision.
One month before our marriage complete 40 years, Eunice die because of cancer.		A month before our 40th wedding anniversary, Eunice lost her battle with cancer.
One of our family friend come talk sey e go better if I go school wey other deaf children dey. So my uncle come put me for one school for deaf people wey dey where dem dey call Saskatoon, for Saskatchewan.		A family friend suggested that I be educated with other deaf children, so Uncle Nick enrolled me in the school for the deaf located in Saskatoon, Saskatchewan.
Plan am well.		Count the cost.
So, e come tell Nathan wetin dey im mind just like when person go meet im friend to advise am.		David desired to build a house for.
So, from December 1917 go reach the beginning of 1918, the small number of Bible Student use all their mind and power take share 10,000,000 tract, wey the topic na: " The Fall of Babylon ( Babylon Don Fall ). "		Accordingly, between December 1917 and early 1918, the few thousand Bible Students zealously distributed 10,000,000 copies of a tract featuring the subject " The Fall of Babylon " - a hard - hitting indictment of Christendom.
So if we dey copy Jesus example, we go continue to show love. The third thing wey go help us na to get real love for our brothers and sisters.		Reflecting on Jesus ' example of showing love even when provoked helped me to show similar love to my coworker. "
So we de do everything make we help them learn the truth about.		Therefore, we keep encouraging them to learn the truth about and his purpose for mankind.
Some of us fit dey feel like one sister wey talk sey: ' Love and marriage na something wey dey our blood. '		Furthermore, some may feel like one sister, who said: " We are hardwired to want love and companionship. "
The one wey good pass be sey, dem serve because dem love am.		Most important, their motive for serving was pure.
The picture really make me think, and the books get many things about Bible. Because of this one, e begin hungry me to learn more about Bible from when I dey small.		As a result, from an early age, I developed a hunger for Bible knowledge, such as was presented in those outstanding volumes.
The second topic go help us know sey to get real faith, no be just to know wetin get for mind for us.		The second article shows how true faith is much more than just a mental understanding of the blessings that has in store for us.
The sister come dey think about wetin e dey do.		This Witness then began to think about her own actions.
The things wey I plan to do go make me near pass before?		Will my decisions help me to grow spiritually?
They go help us so that we go fight and win Satan.		With their help, we can resist our enemy.
This one na one thing wey go really make you happy. Make you start to plan when you dey young.		The earlier you start to do this, the sooner you will sense 's guidance, protection, and blessing.
Today, don still help im people dey show sey dem get love well well.		During this time, has also helped his people to cultivate to a greater degree his dominant quality - love.
We fit ask ourself sey: ' I dey follow this advice?		We might ask ourselves: ' Do I apply that counsel in my life?
We fit come be like person wey don use all im life gather money, only to see sey na fake money. ( Prov.		We could feel like a man who has worked all his life for a pile of money, only to learn that it is counterfeit.
We no want mek wetin happen to Israel people happen to us.		Will we learn from their mistakes?
Wetin Adam and Eve do, show sey dem no support as their King. From their time come reach today, many people dey copy dem.		After all, the first human couple rejected 's rulership, and so have many others since then.
Wetin God get for mind to do for the ' great crowd '?		What is God 's will for the " great crowd "?
Wetin Noah, Daniel, and Job do show sey dem get the better sense wey God dey give. ( Ezek.		Noah, Daniel, and Job acquired that wisdom.
Wetin be one thing wey people dey talk and wetin go help us no follow am?		What is an example of worldly thinking, and how can we reject it?
Wetin be some things wey you fit do to help you gain from your Bible reading?		What can you do to make Bible reading more beneficial?
When Armageddon start, no go need people wey go come join fight the war.		When the battle of Armageddon begins, there will be no need for human volunteers to rout the enemy.
When people start to study Bible, their life dey change.		Should we be surprised that many in modern times have made remarkable changes as a result of studying God 's Word?
Where we dey stay far from the island well well.		But eventually we agreed, and it was a good decision.
Why refugee people mind dey come down when we preach to dem?		How does preaching to refugees bring them relief?
Why we suppose respect and praise and Jesus?		Why do and Christ deserve to be honored?
Know where you suppose do reach as you dey follow your God waka! ' - MIC.		Walk in modesty with your God! " - MIC.
Show me your faith when you no dey do wetin show sey you get am, and I go show you my faith with wetin I dey do. '		Show me your faith without the works, " wrote James, " and I will show you my faith by my works. "
But, you think sey Jesus and Paul ' dey always talk about wine, ' or ' you think sey to drink wine dey sweet dem reach bone '?		But did Jesus and Paul " constantly talk about, engage and glory in " wine?
How the things wey Jesus teach fit help us dey as one?		And how will his teaching help us to keep united?
E no want make we dey fear but e want make we happy because e don put us for elders hand.		From that standpoint, the Scriptural qualifications for Christian elders remind us of how much truly cares for us.
We get Pioneer Service School, School for Kingdom Evangelizers, Gilead School, Bethel Entrants School, School for Circuit Overseer and Their Wife, School for Congregation Elders, Kingdom Ministry School, and School for Branch Committee Members and Their Wife.		We have the Pioneer Service School, the School for Kingdom Evangelizers, Gilead School, Bethel Entrants ' School, the School for Circuit Overseers and Their Wives, the School for Congregation Elders, the Kingdom Ministry School, and the School for Branch Committee Members and Their Wives.
You think sey Elihu dey talk for here sey all the things wey we dey do to fit serve God na zero?		Was Elihu suggesting that our efforts in God 's service are pointless?
This people still baptize to show sey dem don comot hand from the bad things wey Moses Law sey make dem no do.		Like those performed by John, these baptisms symbolized the individuals ' repentance over sins against the Mosaic Law.
Jesus no only preach to one Samaritan woman. E still stay for Samaritan town for two days because the people want hear e message. - John 4: 21 - 24, 40.		And Jesus not only preached to a Samaritan woman but he spent two days in a Samaritan town because of the people 's interest in his message. - John 4: 21 - 24, 40.
About one year before e tell dem, e talk wetin everybody wey want be im disciple go need to do.		Just about a year before Jesus gave the commission to " make disciples., baptizing them, " he provided insight into what would be required of his followers.
How papa and mama wey wise fit help their children?		How can discerning parents effectively assist their children?
How Moses take show sey e get strong mind?		How did Moses set a fine example of courage?
True true, na choose Moses, Joshua, Gideon, and David to lead im people.		Indeed, chose Moses, Joshua, Gideon, and David to represent him as Leader.
Mark 2: 8 ) So, what if we de talk or pray, and other people fit hear?		What, though, about speaking or praying out loud?
Na so e still be today, brothers and sisters wey get different character fit still use one mind do things together.		Accordingly, it is possible for Christians with quite different personalities to work together today.
This verse talk sey ' dem go gather the people wey Jesus don choose. ' Na people wey dey go heaven this place dey talk about.		This ' gathering of chosen ones ' refers to the time when all anointed Christians who still remain on earth will receive their heavenly reward.
Instead of im mind to dey worry am every time, David learn from im mistake.		Instead of being paralyzed by guilt, David learned from his mistakes.
Na this one make Noah and im family survive when destroy the bad people that time. - Heb.		Noah and his family survived the end of that world. - Heb.
For example, we must comot hand for sex matter wey no clean for God eye. This one mean sey, we go comot hand from anything wey fit make us do am.		This means that we have to stay away from anything that could lead us into such wrongdoing, including pornography.
AS POLICE for prison dey carry one thief go where dem go kill am, dem come dey shout sey: ' Na dead body dey waka so! '		DEAD MAN WALKING! " That cry rings out as a dangerous criminal is led from his prison cell, metal doors clanging behind him.
After don tell am wetin e want do, wey Noah never see, Noah show sey e get faith.		Noah exercised his faith by building the gigantic ark.
After Zechariah see the scroll wey dey fly, one angel come tell am sey make e ' look up. '		After seeing the flying scroll, Zechariah is told by an angel to " look up. "
After one year, when Kimberly dey 25 years, e come marry Brian.		Brian and Kimberly got married the next year - when she was 25.
After that one, e come baptize.		Shortly afterward, she got baptized.
All of dem don leave some things for life, so that dem go fit get more time to serve.		All of these make sacrifices in their lives in order to devote more time to sacred service.
And even after we baptize, we still continue to dey change our life.		This change affected every area of our life. And it was not over when we got baptized.
And when we use all our mind take serve am, belle go dey sweet us.		And when we give God whole - souled worship, we experience happiness that has no equal.
Apostle Peter dey among the people wey dey direct Christian for im time.		Peter proved to be a pillar in the early Christian congregation.
Because Louis and Perrine endure, bless dem well well.		richly rewarded the endurance shown by Louis and Perrine.
Because we be Christian, make we no take wetin Jesus talk about the last days play. E sey make we ' continue to dey watch. '		As Christians, we must take seriously Jesus ' admonition to " keep on the watch " in these last days.
Blossom talk sey: " E tell all of us to kneel down and e come pray.		Blossom related: " He had all of us get on our knees, and he offered a prayer.
But Nadine talk sey: " I no want go before, because I no want comot from where our children dey.		When they reached adulthood, we considered the possibility of serving abroad. "
But from that time go reach when Asa die, na so so fight people dey come fight Asa and im people.		Baasha was turned away; however, Asa and his people experienced wars for the rest of his reign.
But our meeting dey help us because e dey give us power to continue to serve.		But our meetings encourage us and give us the strength to keep serving.
But when the war don stop, dem release the brothers and dem cancel the case.		When the war ended, however, they were released and the charges against them were dropped.
Dem dey invite me come their house. And many times I dey fit study Bible with dem.		They invite me in, and often I can study the Bible with them.
Dem dey preach for area wey dem need more publisher.		They serve in areas where more Kingdom proclaimers are needed.
Dem no know sey dem be slave to fake religion and money. Satan still dey make dem dey follow how people dey do things for their community, and dem dey try to change how things be.		Today, the vast majority of people are still blinded by the god of this system of things and are in bondage - religious, economic, and social.
Dem still dey use their time and power do work, instead of mek dem dey enjoy with their pikin or grand pikin dem.		Instead, they give their time and energy to.
E come born im first pikin wey be boy.		What joy that brought her!
E dey help well well to praise and tell people better word wey fit make dem strong.		Be sincere and specific.
E get one time wey government no gree make black people and oyibo people dey do things together for South Africa.		At one time, of different skin color in that country could not freely associate with one another.
E good make we dey give people things.		Giving is good for us.
E make me remember sey snow go soon start to fall.		It reminded me that freezing weather would soon take control of the area.
E only show sey dem get problem wey dem dey face now.		They have more to do with circumstances that make practicing faith a challenge - at least for now. "
E sey: ' When una don do everything wey dem sey make una do, make una talk sey: " We no be anything, we just be servant.		When praised, we do well to apply Jesus ' words: " When you have done all the things assigned to you, say: ' We are good - for - nothing slaves.
E still sey: " Dem treat us like their friend and their family person.		He added: " They accepted us as their friends and as part of their family.
E talk say, " I begin do wetin Bible talk, and this one really help me. Now, me and my family people de respect each other well. "		He says, " I began applying Bible principles in my life, and as a result, the respect between me and my family grew. "
E talk sey, before many people even know sey lie lie don change how dem dey think, dem don go far. Another person wey still sabi this matter talk sey, lie lie don make people do many bad things.		Because we may not see propaganda for what it is, behavior specialist Vance Packard observed: " Many of us are being influenced and manipulated - far more than we realize. "
E talk sey: " People wey their person die need to talk wetin dey their mind and how body dey do dem.		A widow named Dalene explains: " Bereaved ones need to express their thoughts and feelings.
E talk sey: ', na you be our Papa. We be clay, and na you mold us; all of us na your hand work. ' - Isa.		We are the clay, and you are our Potter; we are all the work of your hand. " - Isa.
Endurance go help us get strong mind to do good things, e go help us get strong faith and we go dey patient.		Endurance helps us to be courageous, faithful, and patient.
For example, Lamech wey come from Seth family, serve.		Before the Flood, Seth 's descendant Lamech worshipped.
For example, Paul sey Timothy na pikin wey e love and wey dey follow wetin the Lord talk, and na person wey dey help other Christian well well. ( 1 Cor. 4: 17; Phil.		For instance, Paul described Timothy as his " beloved and faithful child in the Lord, " one who would genuinely care for the concerns of other Christians.
For this their website, dem dey take style put some things wey go make people doubt the things wey organization dey talk. ( Ps.		Planted in those sites is material designed to sow doubts in readers ' minds.
For winter ( season wey cold well well ), we dey gather for person house.		In winter, we gathered for meetings in a house.
From the time wey dem preach to us, we don dey learn many truth. We learn some from Bible, our book dem, convention, assembly, and meeting. As time dey go, we come know many things.		From the time that we first heard the truth, we have had the opportunity to collect truths from his Word, the Bible, from our Christian publications, and from our conventions, assemblies, and weekly meetings.
God don really favor you. dey with you. "		Greetings, you highly favored one, " the angel began, " is with you. "
Heinrich Gleissner.		Heinrich Gleissner was a prisoner on the same train.
Herman Philbrick talk sey: " As we reach house, we start to meet people wey want make the magazine dey reach their hand every month. "		Upon our return to our home bases, we all got busy with the subscription campaign, " said Herman Philbrick.
How don use im spirit take give us freedom?		In what ways has 's spirit liberated us?
How favor take dey make our mind come down?		How does 's undeserved kindness benefit our hearts?
How take dey help people wey trust am when dem dey face problem?		How does make the way out for those who rely on him in the face of trials?
How Zechariah 6: 15 take dey happen for our time?		How is Zechariah 6: 15 being fulfilled in our day?
How e go take happen?		How is that?
I go help you. " '		I will help you. ' "
If I want enjoy myself, I dey first sitdown think how go see am? '		Am I willing to practice self - denial because I want to serve God?
If we want stop to look things wey dey show naked people, wetin we go do?		What is needed for a person to stay free from pornography?
Jesus sey: ' Nobody fit serve two oga. E go hate one and love the other one, or e go hold one tight and leave the other one.		Jesus said: " No one can slave for two masters; for either he will hate the one and love the other, or he will stick to the one and despise the other.
Love dey everything wey dey do.		How have God 's servants shown love?
Make we talk about some people example for Bible wey show sey go fit do wetin we no put for mind. This one go help us use all our mind take trust.		Let us consider some Bible accounts that reinforce our confidence in 's ability to do the unexpected in our behalf.
Marriage for our time suppose start with man and woman wey don give their life and wey love am with all their mind.		Christian marriage should begin with a man and a woman who are dedicated to and love him wholeheartedly.
Na make us, so mek we dey do wetin e tell us.		created us, and we should obey him.
Na good thing Jesus talk when e sey make we put God Kingdom first, no be money or property.		For good reason, Jesus taught us to seek the Kingdom, not things.
Na im make e good make we think about any matter well before we choose wetin we go do. - Read Romans 14: 19; Galatians 6: 7.		Indeed, our personal decisions do matter. - Read Romans 14: 19; Galatians 6: 7.
Na the conscience wey God give them.		That has been true ever since man has been on the earth.
No wonder don give us Bible to help us know wetin we go do, make Devil no deceive us. - 2 Tim.		In the pages of the Bible, you can find all you need to combat Satan 's propaganda. - 2 Tim.
No wonder wey we get this topic " Beliefs Clarified " for Watch Tower Publications Index, wey talk about some things wey don change for wetin we believe since 1870.		In fact, the Watch Tower Publications Index includes the heading " Beliefs Clarified, " which lists adjustments in our Scriptural understanding since 1870.
Noah, Daniel, and Job do wetin dem fit do to know well, and help dem.		Because Noah, Daniel, and Job searched for with all their heart, he let himself be found by them.
Old brothers, make una train young men for congregation to fit do una work.		You older ones, equip younger ones to do what you do.
One husband and wife for England, wey they don old, no fit de preach from house to house like before because they no too strong again.		An elderly couple in England have health issues that severely limit their house - to - house ministry.
One person curse am many times, but that one no make am tire.		One person insulted her several times, but she refused to be intimidated.
One sister wey im name na Edith Brenisen talk sey: ' Dem print this three letter ADV make e big, with black color, put for white card.		On every post and doorway were white cards on which were printed in large, black type, ADV.
Or what of government wey dey make people fight war and kill theirself, wey dey oppress poor people, people wey no get who go help dem, and wey dey like do partial and collect bribe?		Or what about the governments that promote war and ethnic violence, that oppress the poor and defenseless, that thrive on bribery and favoritism?
Our meeting dey help us sabi how we go take do wetin we don learn from Bible.		Meetings teach us to use what we learn from the Bible in our lives.
Sergio and Olinda wey we talk about for paragraph one don get this kind experience.		Sergio and Olinda, mentioned before, noticed such a change.
So, we need to chop food wey really good for body.		Therefore, we mainly eat nutritious food.
So even if person don first baptize for another religion, e need to baptize again as Witness. - Read Acts 19: 3 - 5.		Hence, new disciples must get baptized even if they previously were baptized in another religion. - Read Acts 19: 3 - 5.
So na husband and wife go choose wetin dem go use if dem never ready to born pikin, or if dem no want born plenty children.		Hence, it is up to each couple to determine whether to use some form of birth control to limit the size of the family or to determine when to have children.
Some other belt still get one strong thing to hold sword and knife.		Some belts also had strong clips that served to carry a sword and a dagger.
The brother no dey collect money, but wetin e do really help the brothers wey no too get money.		It is a financial sacrifice for the brother but a great help to the local publishers of little means.
The people wey dey work for dem come dey drag the land wey grass plenty pass.		Both men possessed livestock, and their shepherds apparently quarreled about grazing land.
The truth be sey, the main thing wey correction mean na to teach person, the way papa and mama dey teach pikin wey dem love.		Indeed, the meaning behind " discipline " primarily relates to education, such as that involved in raising a beloved child.
The weather for there just different.		The climate was also quite a shock.
This one mean sey true true, other people for congregation fit gain from the book dem.		Here, too, adult Christians can benefit.
To dey put mind for the spirit dey bring life and peace. - w16.12, pp.		The former leads to death, the latter to life and peace. - w16.12, pp.
To talk to people no hard dem.		I am very shy when it comes to preaching informally.
Today, e still good make we think about the things wey we dey do when other people dey support work.		So, too, should any who today are holding back from serving God fully.
We ask some of this sisters how the work be.		We interviewed several of these experienced sisters.
We come run go one town wey dem dey call Schladming.		We took refuge in the town of Schladming.
We miss wuna. ' "		We missed you. ' "
We reach one place wey be Lisbon, wey dey Portugal, for August 1964.		We arrived in Lisbon, Portugal, in August of 1964.
Wetin go happen when the things wey dey Bible dey for papa and mama mind?		When a parent 's heart is filled with Bible truth, what will be the result?
Wetin make Hannah mind come down?		How did Hannah find relief from distress?
Wetin you go do to help person wey no trust wetin Bible talk, and wetin you go get for mind?		How might you adjust the way you discuss the Bible, and with what goal?
When Vitaly dey 19 years, e come be special pioneer.		When he was 19, Vitaly left to serve as a special pioneer.
When we de smile and greet them well, e go help them know who we be and the kind God wey we de serve.		Our friendly smile and warm greeting say much about who we are and what kind of God we worship.
When we dey pray, e good make we dey tell wetin dey our mind, especially when we dey face problem.		Also important is regular heartfelt prayer, especially when we face trials or other challenging situations.
Which advice Jesus give about how to settle quarrel?		How did Jesus teach people to handle disagreements?
Why faith be better thing and how we fit make am strong?		Why is faith so important, and how can we keep it strong?
Yes, na true!		Yes, it is!
You fit dey sure sey go forgive you ( Check paragraph 14 - 16 )		Be confident in 's forgiveness ( See paragraphs 14 - 16 )
You for let wetin David do make you no serve again?		Would David 's wrong conduct have stumbled you?
You no believe sey ready to help you and e fit help you when you no well? - Ps.		Do you believe that is capable and willing to sustain you even on a sickbed? - Ps.
If una get any word wey go make the people strong, make una talk am. ' - ACTS 13: 15.		If you have any word of encouragement for the people, tell it. " - ACTS 13: 15.
Make we show sey we get all this better character wey Paul talk about.		First, cultivate and display the qualities that Paul mentioned - humility, mildness, patience, and love.
This one no mean sey the husband or wife wey dey serve don free to marry another person. But, no need to force the husband or wife wey no be servant to stay.		This does not mean that the Christian is now Scripturally free to remarry, but there is no obligation to try to force the unbelieving mate to remain.
When husband and wife remember sey God go judge dem for wetin dem do, e go make dem do everything wey dem suppose do to settle any problem quick quick before e serious.		Bearing in mind that all of us will render an account to God should move marriage mates to make earnest efforts to resolve problems quickly so that these do not become more serious.
Work no go dey, things go cost well well, food no go plenty, and many people go poor well well.		Such conditions include unemployment, inflation, food shortages, and abject poverty that many experience.
But we fit praise people wey dey government for their work. And sometimes better things dey happen because of this one.		In contrast, our showing government officials due respect and honor can at times have positive, even unexpected, results.
We fit do the better thing wey we don plan. ( Phil.		He gave us power to carry out our plans, enabling us to work toward proper goals.
When we take our time think well well about everything wey concern any matter, e go make us fit choose wetin good.		When we take the time to weigh carefully all the aspects or facts related to a decision, we will likely be more successful.
If we know where we suppose do reach, how e go take help us when we get new work?		What will modesty move us to do in a new role or assignment?
How peace de help make we continue with the preaching work?		Why does peace help us to keep bearing fruit?
Wetin be the three main question wey we go talk about for this topic?		What key points will we now discuss?
Where we go obey dem reach?		To what extent is it proper to support officials?
Why David dey worry whether Solomon go fit do the work?		Why did David express concern about Solomon?
If we no dey carry shoulder, e fit make other people come serve.		When we show humility, people may be drawn to.
What if person want leave im husband or wife go stay im own?		What, then, about separating from one 's marriage mate?
God no go happy if we no know where we suppose praise people reach.		God would not be pleased if we extended to humans more honor than they are due.
Wetin Get for Mind Go Happen!		s Purpose Will Be Fulfilled!
Na Jesus give us this advice for Sermon on the Mount.		You may recall that advice Jesus gave in the Sermon on the Mount.
Dem go need to work well well to fit take care of their family.		They must work hard to fulfill this obligation.
Luke 11: 2 ) Jesus come talk about how no dey fail to take care of people, so that the people wey e dey talk to, no go worry too much.		To put his listeners ' minds at ease, Jesus next highlighted 's matchless record as a Provider.
Noah na really better example of person wey get faith and wey obey God!		What a fine example of faith and obedience!
After, they tell me say before my papa die, e don de study Bible with Witness.		Later I learned that before my father died, he too studied with 's.
After all, e don first kill Uriah wey no do am anything.		After all, David already had innocent Uriah killed.
And before we choose wetin we want do, e good make we wait and think about question like: ' Wetin Bible talk wey go help me choose well?		When making decisions, we will stop and ponder over these questions:  What Bible principles will help me decide?
Another thing be sey, dem go try dey do return visit well well, especially every evening for middle of the week.		Enthusiastic pioneers zealously focused on the field ministry
Anybody wey really be " anointed " no go want make dem take am as oga. E no go dey show imself. ( Matt. 23: 8 - 12 ) - w16.01 - E, pp.		One who is truly anointed would not want to be exalted; nor would he want to publicize his standing with God. - w16.01, pp.
Bible tell us how God take bless many of im servant wey serve am well. ( Rom.		It contains many accounts of how God did indeed reward faithful servants.
But ' as e see sey e don get power, e begin carry shoulder up, ' e forget sey na God give am power!		But " as soon as he was strong, his heart became haughty, " even though his strength was from God!
But e no fit stop our preaching work.		But he cannot stop the preaching of the good news.
But science never fit answer many question wey dey worry people for mind.		But there are many questions science has not been able to answer.
Dem come go Ghana, after the branch wey dey there, tell dem sey dem fit come.		After they received a very positive response from the branch in Ghana, they traveled there, intending to visit for two months.
Devil no want make we use all our mind and power do work. E know sey na wetin dey make us strong be that.		The Devil well knows that our being fully engaged in Christian activities can strengthen us, and he does not want us to be strong.
E come give David and im men plenty things wey dem go chop.		And she provided ample food supplies to David, who would be the next king, and to his men.
E dey always pray and think about wetin e read.		He had to take time to allow the Bible 's message to touch his heart.
E even talk sey im disciple go love their enemy. - Matt.		Such Christian love would even be extended to one 's enemies. - Matt.
E first go meet the elders wey they don de give Solomon advice before.		The new king first consulted with the older men who had been counselors to Solomon.
E get one sister wey dey 18 years, im name na Abigail.		Then thank in prayer for those blessings.
E go still show sey the person wey we value pass na, wey give us this gift.		See the box " A Turning Point. "
E sey make dem ' give the person wetin go help am, ' if e need help. So no be only elders need to encourage other people. ( Eph.		Paul exhorted all Christians to speak " what is good for building up as the need may be, to impart what is beneficial " to others.
E want show am the seventh vision.		What will his seventh vision reveal?
Elders today need to dey do like wey dey judge matter well.		Elders today must be sure to imitate, who " loves justice. "
Even people for olden days do or talk wetin pain other people. Wetin we fit learn from dem?		Even faithful servants of God in the past said or did things that hurt others, and we can learn from what the Bible reveals about this.
Even as dem try put sand sand for our garri reach, still bless the preaching work for the area. Now, many people don dey serve for there.		Still, the work progressed, and many in those areas are now worshippers of.
Even with the bad thing wey Adam and Eve do, God still want make their children be im friend.		Despite Adam and Eve 's rebellion, wants mankind to enjoy a good relationship with him.
For example, e be like sey na when e dey young im papa wey be Joseph die. * That time, Jesus fit never reach 20 years or e dey around 20 years.		It seems likely that Joseph, his adoptive father, died when Jesus was still a relatively young man.
For this topic, we don learn wetin e mean for God spirit to dey direct person.		We have considered what it means to be a spiritual person.
From 1919, start to arrange im people small small again, and make dem get one mind again. This people na the anointed, and na dem be " Judah " stick.		From the year 1919 onward, first gradually reorganized and reunited the anointed, who were symbolically like the stick " for Judah. "
Get am for mind sey, Satan no want make you dey think well.		Keep in mind that Satan does not want you to think clearly or reason things out well.
God take dew bless us. ( Deut.		Actual dew is a blessing from God.
How dey feel about people wey dey thief?		How does view any kind of stealing?
How organization dey use the money wey people dey contribute?		How does the organization strive to make the best use of donated funds?
How our God, take be ' one '?		In what sense is our God " one "?
How prayer fit make our mind come down?		How can prayer provide us with comfort?
I come dey write letter give am to tell am wetin dey happen for our congregation. The sister still dey write letter give me to tell me how im preaching work dey go for Boston area.		I began writing to her with news about the congregation, and she would write back to tell me of her success in the ministry in the Boston area.
I no know sey you go take the matter like that! " But talk wetin go show sey you still get hand for wetin make am vex. So you fit sey, " Abeg, no let wetin I talk vex you. "		For instance, rather than saying, " I 'm sorry that you feel that way, " you could admit your role in the problem by saying, " I 'm sorry that I hurt you by what I said. "
I really want enjoy wetin dem enjoy. But I dey fear sey I no go fit do like dem. "		But, " she adds, " I feared that being a need - greater was beyond my abilities. "
I tell am sey na from Brooklyn.		I told him we get it from Brooklyn.
come stop to support am as king.		of course, is the righteous Judge.
organization don give us many things wey go make our Bible study make sense.		s organization has provided a number of tools to help you put together an effective study program.
still see the kind strong faith wey Abraham get and talk sey im na righteous man.		Still, noted Abraham 's outstanding faith and counted him as righteous.
want make dem come back to am, make dem use all their mind worship am like before.		wanted them to return to him, to resume their fearless, wholehearted worship of him.
Jennifer talk sey na help am to fit preach to people, even though sey e don tire.		She says, " I felt that blessed me despite the trying experience and gave me enough strength to carry his name in a worthwhile way. "
Know Where You Suppose Do Reach, Jan.		Do Not Let Your Love Grow Cold, May
Love ' dey bear everything, believe everything, put mind sey everything go better and endure everything. ' Another thing be sey person wey get love dey use all im mind show am.		Also, it " rejoices with the truth, " and it " bears all things, believes all things, hopes all things, endures all things. "
Magazine wey e dey give for preaching every month dey pass hundred.		He would place hundreds of our magazines each month.
Make we no ever think say the trap wey Satan de use no fit catch us.		Never underestimate the lure of immorality or the danger of egotism.
Make we no think sey we get right to choose for our brothers and sisters wetin dem go do.		Clearly, we should avoid any tendency to think that we are authorized to make decisions for other brothers and sisters.
Make we talk about some of dem.		Consider a few.
Many years don pass, and two of us don pass 80 years.		The years have rolled by, and both of us are in our 80 ' s.
Maxim dey 11 years and im sister Noemi dey 10 years when dem baptize.		Maxim was 11 years old and his sister Noemi was one year younger when they got baptized.
Mek we no endure for only small time but mek we endure go reach the end.		We must endure, not just for a period of time, but to the end.
Na because na the only pikin wey Jephthah get be this. E no go marry or born.		Jephthah had no son, and his only daughter would never be able to marry and bear him grandchildren.
Na im make Elijah tell dem sey make dem serve because na that one better pass.		Wisely, Elijah urged them to choose the superior way of worship - the worship of.
Na im make us believe true true sey na choose Jesus.		Jesus was 's choice.
Na im make when Joseph want collect the body, Pilate dey wonder if Jesus don really die.		Indeed, he knew of Jesus ' death before Pilate did.
Na one wife Noah still marry, even though sey people start to marry pass one wife after Adam and Eve sin. - Gen.		The same could be said of Noah. He had just one wife, even though polygamy began to be practiced soon after the rebellion in Eden. - Gen.
No forget wetin Jesus come talk. E sey: ' If na like this God take dey dress the grass wey dey bush, una think sey e no go fit give una cloth, una wey get small faith? '		Do not miss the point of what Jesus is saying: " If this is how God clothes the vegetation of the field., will he not much rather clothe you, you with little faith? "
One of the people wey write psalms talk sey: ' near people wey their mind don scatter; e dey save people wey life don tire. '		The psalmist sang: " is close to the brokenhearted; he saves those who are discouraged. "
One sister wey im name na Ruth remember wetin happen. E talk sey: " Some of the brothers wey follow us that time come later put hand for politics. Dem come go back where dem dey stay before, because dem no fit bear the kind suffer suffer wey dey the camp wey we dey stay. "		A sister named Ruth remembers, " Some went into exile with us but later joined the political party and returned home because they did not want to put up with the discomforts of life in the refugee camp. "
One way na to copy their faith and their better example.		One way is to imitate the faith of the elders as well as their fine example.
Other people fit no know our story.		Nearly everyone enjoys sharing his experiences in life.
People wey don see am no plenty.		Very few people have.
Remember wetin dey Galatians 6: 5.		Remember the principle found at Galatians 6: 5.
Since ten years now, the number of pioneer don plenty reach where e never reach before. E reach 13,224 for October 2015.		Pioneer numbers have reached new peaks over the last ten years, reaching 13,224 in October 2015.
So, study Bible well, like sey you dey find better thing wey dey inside ground.		So dig deeply into God 's Word, as if you were looking for hidden treasures.
So make all of us to dey pity for people.		Humans were made in God 's image.
So if we dey copy Jesus example, we go dey near more more.		So being like Jesus makes us more like.
So this vision help us see wetin go happen.		So by means of this prophecy, we are allowed to see behind the scenes, as it were, into the heavenly realm itself.
Sometimes, e no bad for person to leave im marriage go stay im own.		Separation might at times be justified.
That one go fit happen because dem don baptize, and God use the ransom ( wey be Jesus sacrifice ) take forgive their sin. E still talk sey dem righteous as im children. - Rom.		That is possible because they became baptized Christians, and God applied the ransom in their behalf, forgave their sins, and declared them righteous as spiritual sons. - Rom.
The accident na the man fault. But the man come dey curse Luigi and e ready to fight am.		Despite being in the wrong, the other driver insulted Luigi and tried to start a fight.
The book still talk sey this things no mean sey the pikin no believe wetin Bible talk again.		Significantly, " the appendix continues, " issues such as these have little to do with the tenets of your faith.
The message wey dey the other side of the scroll, concern people wey dey ' use God name swear. ' After dem swear finish, dem no go come do am.		The message written on the flying scroll next delivers a warning to those ' who make a false oath in God 's name. '
The next topic go help us see other things wey show sey people value Bible well well and sey dem ready to worship as their King. - Ps.		The next article will give further proof that these ones highly esteem the Bible and are determined to honor the Sovereign Lord. - Ps.
The story about Abraham and im brother pikin, Lot, wey we don already talk about, na one story for Bible wey tell us how we fit settle quarrel. Two of dem get many animal and people wey dey work for dem.		A Scriptural account in which God 's servants peacefully resolved a potentially divisive issue is the one mentioned earlier involving Abraham and his nephew Lot.
Think about how you go like make people treat you if that kind thing happen to you.		Think about how you would like others to act toward you if you were in a similar situation.
This na one of the many place where dem dey do metropolitan witnessing for Lagos.		One of the many metropolitan witnessing stands in Lagos, the most populous city in Africa.
This one dey make dem happy well well, whether dem don marry or dem never marry.		Their goal is to honor God by doing his will.
This one no go only make us believe sey e dey, but we go still see sey e no dey fail to do better thing for people wey e love. - Read Hebrews 11: 6.		The more we love our God, the stronger our faith becomes, not only that he exists, but that he unfailingly rewards those whom he loves. - Read Hebrews 11: 6.
This people want make Roman government continue to rule because many of them get position for the government.		Many of their members enjoyed political power under the Roman administration.
Today, we dey live like stranger for this world wey bad things full.		How we can imitate Daniel 's faith and obedience.
We tell Brother Franz make e tell us something about the many years wey e don dey serve. E sey: ' The advice wey I go give una be sey: No matter wetin happen, no comot for organization.		When asked to close the evening by saying something about his many years in 's service, Brother Franz commented: " My recommendation is: Stay with 's visible organization through thick and thin.
We tell am make e come inside and we give am water drink.		We invited her in and gave her a glass of water.
Wetin favor suppose make us do?		Because of 's undeserved kindness, what responsibilities do we have?
Wetin Job story teach us about how to use better word help person?		What does the book of Job teach us about giving encouragement?
Wetin go help us continue to like wetin we dey learn for Bible?		How can we develop a deep love for Bible truth?
Wetin person wey get real love suppose do when e do wetin bad well well for eye?		What will genuine love move a person to do if he has committed a serious sin?
Wetin show sey Noah really get mind?		In what ways did Noah show great courage?
When Israel people go back to Jerusalem, the person wey write Psalm 147 come dey think about how take dey help dem.		gives us a basis for being convinced that he will help his people when they are in need.
When e dey 15 years, e start to sleep with different different people so that e no go feel sey e dey alone.		From the age of 15, she began to have sexual relations with different partners in order to relieve her loneliness.
When the brothers for Philippi read Paul letter, dem know sey Paul no just sitdown begin write wetin dey im mind.		Indeed, when those brothers in Philippi read Paul 's letter, they knew that these were not the words of an academic who was sitting somewhere in an office.
When time reach to put the fruit dem for container, other sisters dey come join us work.		During the canning season, local sisters came to assist, and Etta would help organize their work.
When we dey pray, dey go our meeting, dey go preaching, and dey do other things for, we dey worship am. But if we no want settle quarrel wey we get with people, all the things wey we dey do for na zero!		Our efforts to serve God - through prayers, meeting attendance, field service, and other aspects of our worship - are in vain if we refuse to make peace with others.
Why we no need to rush call elders when we get quarrel with our brothers and sisters for congregation?		What shows that following Jesus ' counsel is practical and loving?
You fit dey think sey you don answer the question wey your pikin ask you well.		You may feel that you have dealt with a question to your child 's satisfaction.
The people wey dey build " wey Bible talk about, na the people wey dey lead Jew people. Dem no want the Messiah.		The builders, " the Jewish leaders, rejected the Messiah.
To dey patient, to get better mind, to dey good. '		Patience, kindness, goodness.
So, to like the truth wey dey Bible, we go first know wetin dey inside.		Therefore, love for truth starts with gaining an accurate knowledge of God 's Word.
E no dey live the yeye life wey many of the Sanhedrin members dey live.		Joseph, however, is called " a good and righteous man. "
Wetin we go talk about for the next topic?		What will we consider in the next article?
Adam and Eve suppose still follow law even though sey dem get freedom to choose wetin dem want do.		Thus, having free will did not entitle Adam and Eve to disregard God 's law.
Some of dem even travel go other country go preach.		Some even traveled to foreign countries.
Story About People Life - To Give Don Make My Life Sweet		Life Story - How I Found Happiness in Giving
And true - true, I no really understand.		It certainly was a mystery to me.
And we fit use Bible take help our pikin or Bible student to ' do everything wey Jesus command us. ' ( 2 Tim.		Thus our child or Bible student can be helped to understand and ' observe all the things Jesus commanded us. '
As time de go, our better character fit make some of them change the way them de think about us.		In time, our conduct may help some to see that their negative views about us may not be correct after all.
Because that time Babylon people no dey ever release their slave.		Babylon never released its captives.
Brother Ionash talk say: " I de wake up four o 'clock for morning so that I no go miss train. And I go preach until six o 'clock for evening, when train de go back.		To catch the train, I got up at 4: 00 a.m. and I preached until 6: 00 p.m. when the train departed for home.
Brother Klaus Jensen wey be the overseer for there come ask me one question. E ask me if I go like to dey follow one brother work. The brother dey use big motor carry carton of our book go different different place.		Klaus Jensen, the department overseer, asked me if I would be willing to accompany the driver who was taking cartons of literature by truck to the docks for shipping worldwide.
Brothers and sisters for congregation fit be our papa, mama, brothers, sisters, and children. You no gree sey this one better pass anything wey we don leave because of God Kingdom?		Are not spiritual fathers, mothers, brothers, sisters, and children much more valuable than anything we have renounced or given up for the sake of the Kingdom?
But, e still get things wey dem no suppose do, and things wey dem suppose do.		Some of them were instinctive, but they were limits nonetheless.
But as the brother wey dey platform dey give im talk, you come dey think about the person wey you invite come.		As the public speaker delivers his talk, you are likely thinking about that visitor.
But e still good make we do wetin we fit do to help ourself and other people.		At the same time, we should do what we can, taking appropriate action to solve problems and help others.
But now if you make our work easy for us and remove the heavy load wey your papa put for our body, we go do wetin you talk. " - 2 Chron.		But if you make the harsh service of your father easier and you lighten the heavy yoke he put on us, we will serve you. " - 2 Chron.
But we no know.		We, however, do not know.
Chris still tell Gavin sey the things wey Bible talk sey go happen, na im help am believe wetin Bible talk.		Then, Chris explained that Bible prophecy convinced him personally that the Bible is true.
Dem comot am from prison. And dem come make am be second oga after Pharaoh for Egypt. - Gen.		He was released from prison and promoted to the second - highest position in Egypt. - Gen.
E do wetin e learn.		He applied the lessons he learned.
E don tey wey people know sey dem suppose to dey use better word help each other. And dem don dey do am even before Jesus come show people how to do am.		Even before 's Son came to earth and set a perfect example of how to impart encouragement, faithful servants of were conscious of the need to be encouraging.
E get sometimes wey dem go force am mek e work when weather cold well well and dem no go give am better cloth wey go mek cold no catch am.		Sometimes she was forced to work outside in the freezing cold without enough clothes to keep her warm.
E get strong faith for wetin promise Abraham.		Yet, despite being surrounded by " physical " men, Jacob was a spiritual man.
E go always hungry woman to dey with im husband, but man go dey control im wife and sometimes dem go use strong hand as we dey see for many marriage today.		Women would have a longing for their husbands, but men would dominate their wives, even abusively, as we see in many marriages today.
E good make we dey put eye for ground to know how we fit help other people. For example, you fit help person do small work for house or go message for am? - Matt.		For example, could you help someone by offering to perform a necessary chore, maybe running an errand for him? - Matt.
E good make we try understand wetin dey their mind, and listen to dem when dem dey talk. This one go show sey we dey feel for dem, and we go know wetin dey their mind. ( Prov.		We should show empathy by trying to see things from their viewpoint and by listening carefully to discern their real concerns.
E still talk sey: " E fit surprise person to know sey even small things get many many part inside dem. "		He added: " One is struck by the complexity of even the simplest form of life. "
E talk sey na the research wey im and im wife dey do for their family worship. Dem go find different different way wey dem fit answer different people wey no want listen to dem.		He says: " During our family worship, my wife and I do research to find answers to objections and opinions people express.
Even as e don pass 60 years wey I dey another country, I still need to ready to learn new things and do anything wey sey make I do.		Even after more than 60 years in this foreign assignment, I still need to be ready to adjust to what asks.
For example, Egypt people dey worship Ra wey be god of sun, Nut wey be god of sky, Geb wey be god of ground, Hapi wey be Nile god plus many animal.		For example, the Egyptians worshipped the sun - god Ra, the sky - goddess Nut, the earth - god Geb, the Nile - god Hapi, and numerous sacred animals.
For example, people sabi show love and pity person.		Humans are capable of showing one another love, kindness, and compassion.
From 1955, the name come change to Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of Pennsylvania.		Since 1955, that corporation has been known as the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of Pennsylvania.
God take leprosy disgrace am and the leprosy dey im body till e die. - Prov.		He had a humiliating " crash " at God 's hands and died a leper. - Prov.
How we fit treat our brothers and sisters well?		In what ways can we " follow the course of hospitality "?
I go dey give una and una pikin dem food. '		I will keep supplying you and your little children with food. "
I remember one time wey e show me some small books for Tagalog language. Their name na Protection, Safety, and Uncovered. * E still show me Bible.		I remember that he showed me the booklets Protection, Safety, and Uncovered in the Tagalog language, * as well as a Bible.
If e know where e dey go, e no go hard am to know which road to follow.		As long as you know the way to your destination, choosing the right road presents no problem.
If na me face that kind temptation, I for get the heart to run comot?		If I faced a similar temptation, would I have the strength to turn away?
If the people welcome wuna, make wuna peace dey with them, but if they no welcome wuna, make wuna peace remain with wuna. "		If the house is deserving, let the peace you wish it come upon it; but if it is not deserving, let the peace from you return upon you. "
Instead, we go remember sey all of us get where we dey try and where we no dey try.		In addition, instead of simply thinking that a brother or a sister is either " strong " or " weak, " we should recognize that we all have strengths and weaknesses.
Witness people wey dey the area dey make sure sey dem preach to the people wey dey sell the salt		Local make sure to offer the good news to those who sell the locally produced salt
don already warn dem before sey this kind thing fit happen. - Ex.		had long before warned that such a thing could happen. - Ex.
want make we dey use the gift wey e don give us well.		expects us to put our abilities to good use.
Jesus Sacrifice Na Gift From, Feb.		Cultivate Self - Control, Sept.
Jesus talk things wey make people mind come down. How that one fit help us today?		How can Jesus ' expressions of sympathy and consolation help us today?
Joseph na Jacob pikin.		Consider the young man Joseph, a son of Jacob.
Just think about the work wey we go do to make this earth paradise.		Think of the thrilling work of turning this planet into a paradise or of building homes for ourselves and our loved ones.
Later, me, Ilias and my junior sister wey im name na Efmorfia, start to study Bible and we dey always go Witness meeting.		Afterward, Ilias and I and our youngest sister, Efmorfia, started to study the Bible, and we regularly attended meetings with the.
Make we dey do wetin e talk, and continue to serve am well. Apart from that one, make we try dey do things like.		Now is the time to uphold God 's sovereignty by our integrity, our service, and our earnest endeavors to imitate him in all we do.
Make we think about dem and dey thank sey dem write am for us!		Let us meditate on these Bible accounts and be thankful that has provided them for us!
Na so make us.		designed us that way.
Na that time all of us go really be God children. - Rom.		In the fullest sense, we will all be children of God. - Rom.
No be only us dey endure.		We do not have to endure alone.
Nowadays, person fit download Watchtower from jw.org website, or e fit see am for JW Library app for many language.		Nowadays, The Watchtower can be downloaded from the jw.org website or viewed on the JW Library app in many languages.
One pioneer sister join this husband and wife de preach like this. The sister dey the same congregation with them.		A pioneer sister from their congregation joined them in their witnessing initiative.
Paul write sey: ' Make each person do wetin go make im neighbor happy, and wetin go make im faith strong, ' And e still talk sey: ' Even Christ no do wetin go make only imself happy. ' ( Rom.		Then he added this reason: " For even the Christ did not please himself. "
Pedro wey carry im family from Australia go South America talk sey: " We must put mind and body if we dey talk matter wey concern God. " - Luke 24: 32.		When talking about spiritual matters, " says Pedro, who moved his family to Australia from South America, " the heart and emotions should be involved. " - Luke 24: 32.
Person no dey hate imself but e dey chop well and sofri take care of imself. " ( Eph.		So a proper love of self is desirable.
Plenty young people don see say e de easy to preach when they prepare wetin they go talk.		Many young ones have found that if they are well - prepared to declare the good news, they feel more comfortable doing it.
Remember wetin Satan talk. E sey we no dey serve with better mind and we go leave when we dey face problem. ( Job 1: 9 - 11; 2: 4; Rev.		Recall that Satan has challenged the integrity of all those serving, claiming that we would not remain loyal to when exposed to trials.
So we come carry our property run pass back door, and we follow bush comot. We no ever go back.		So we fled through the back door and down the long garden path with all our belongings, never to return.
Some of the things wey you go do na to dey read Bible and dey think about wetin you dey read. You go dey pray to, and still dey think of how don take bless you.		Some of the things involved are reading God 's Word and meditating on it, praying to, and thinking of ways that has blessed you as an individual.
Some people for Bible like, Absalom, Uzziah, and Nebuchadnezzar let the sin wey dey their body control dem. But make dem know sey dem suppose carry theirself down instead of dem to overdo. - 2 Sam.		Bible characters like Absalom, Uzziah, and Nebuchadnezzar succumbed to such works of the flesh and were humbled by for their presumptuousness. - 2 Sam.
That time, dem come start to get leader for church.		At that time, a clergy class began to appear.
The city no be like prison.		This was not a prison of refuge.
The day wey you baptize, dem ask you sey, " Because Jesus die for you, you don repent from your sin and give your life to do wetin e want? " And you sey, yes.		On the day of your baptism, you answered yes to the question, " On the basis of the sacrifice of Jesus Christ, have you repented of your sins and dedicated yourself to to do his will? "
The dog dem surround us. Dem big, dem dey bark, and dem ready to bite us.		My partner and I were soon surrounded by large dogs barking and baring their teeth.
The ending of that book explain other things wey you fit do to help this kind pikin stand well for side.		The appendix then provides several suggestions about how a Christian parent might help a youth whose conviction is wavering.
The next topic go help us know wetin we go do.		The next article will show us how to remain modest in stressful situations.
Them dress and ready to fight like soldier.		They are dressed for battle.
Then around nine o 'clock, I go come go dey iron cloth for laundry.		Then, from about nine o 'clock, I worked in the laundry, ironing clothes.
This kind thing never happen for Ireland before.		It was indeed a turning point for Ireland.
This one de give us peace inside our heart. Na this peace de make us endure as we de preach. ( Ps. 149: 4; Rom. 5: 3, 4; Col.		As we endure, we experience in our heart a lasting feeling of peace that results from knowing that we have 's and Jesus ' approval.
We Go Gain If We Do Wetin Want ( experience ), Sept.		Embracing Bible Truth Without Hands and Arms ( B. Merten ), No.
We go answer this question and other question for this two topic.		These questions and others will be addressed in these two articles.
We go people house dey tell dem sey we be missionary, make we fit get where we go put head; we even give people our magazine for street.		We went from door to door asking for accommodations, saying that we were missionaries, and we offered our magazines on the street.
We go talk about this two question for the next topic.		These questions will be discussed in the next article.
We know sey Devil no go ever let im hand weak as e dey try to make us stop to serve. E dey use lie lie and fear.		We can be sure that the Devil will never let his hands drop down in his efforts to stop our Christian activities.
Wetin Mary talk to praise really show sey e know wetin dey the first part of Bible wey dem use Hebrew write. And e still show sey e like God Word well well. ( Gen. 30: 13; 1 Sam.		Mary 's statements show that she had a deep love for God 's Word and was thoroughly familiar with the Hebrew Scriptures.
Wetin be some things wey fit make us fight make God bless us?		What are some circumstances that might call upon us to wrestle for God 's blessing?
Wetin the prophet wey send go meet Jeroboam no do, and wetin come happen?		What did the unnamed prophet from Judah fail to do, and what was the result?
Wetin we fit learn from how Adam and Eve take answer?		What can we learn from Adam 's and Eve 's responses to?
Wetin we go remember if people for our family dey give us problem?		What must we remember if our relatives oppose our efforts to worship?
When this kind thing happen, I dey try near dem more, so that I go fit understand dem well.		When that happened, I tried to get closer to my housemates, to understand their culture better.
Which important reason for Bible de help Christians remain as one?		What fundamental principle underlies Christian unity?
Which kind person my dress and my style of hair dey show sey I be?		What do my conversations show about my desires?
Why e dey important make our love for Bible law de grow?		Why is it important that we grow to love God 's laws?
Why e no good to judge other people?		Why should we avoid judging other people 's motives?
You get some of dem for your language?		Can you think of some that are available in your language?
You remember Sakura, Ribeiro, Stephen, and Hans wey we talk about for this topic? E no easy for all this people to comot hand from the bad things wey dem dey do before.		The individuals mentioned in this article - Sakura, Ribeiro, Stephen, and Hans - had to fight hard to put away their bad practices.
book. " Na wetin I learn for Proverbs 27: 11, Matthew 26: 52, and John 13: 35, give me mind wey mek I no join army.		Meditating on Proverbs 27: 11, Matthew 26: 52, and John 13: 35 strengthened my conviction to refuse military service.
I come this world so that I go tell people the truth. ' - JOHN 18: 37.		For this I have come into the world, that I should bear witness to the truth. " - JOHN 18: 37.
Remember the people wey dey direct una. ' - HEB.		Remember those who are taking the lead among you. " - HEB.
Make we beg to give us holy spirit so that we fit talk with our family people well.		We can ask for his holy spirit so that we can display its fruitage when speaking with our relatives.
This sacrifice wey be gift from, no go ever fade.		This gift will never lose its value.
This small group of brothers wey use im spirit choose dey arrange wetin people dey learn from Bible. That time, dem dey headquarters for Brooklyn, New York.		Even in those early years, a small group of anointed brothers who served at headquarters in Brooklyn, New York, prepared and distributed spiritual food to Jesus ' followers.
If e like science matter, e fit answer you when you show am point from Bible wey show sey science and Bible gree.		If he is interested in scientific things, he might respond when you mention points that show the Bible 's scientific accuracy.
Wetin we go learn for this topic?		What will we consider in this article?
Wetin we need now for inside congregation?		What needs now exist in the earthly part of 's organization?
Wetin we want learn about Jephthah and Hannah?		What do we want to learn about Jephthah and Hannah?
Wetin show sey people really want dey free?		What evidence is there that people are struggling to gain freedom?
Na better thing sey Jesus allow us to support am like this.		It is a privilege to represent Jesus in this way.
This tribe come from Joseph pikin wey be Ephraim.		This tribe came from Joseph 's son Ephraim.
How the different different story about resurrection take help Martha?		How does what we have considered so far relate to Martha 's statement to Jesus?
After, na Brother Franz come dey direct our work.		Thereafter, Brother Franz took the lead in our work.
Because Timothy do wetin e learn, e come make am fit get more work to do for. - 1 Cor.		Because Timothy applied what he learned, he qualified for greater responsibility. - 1 Cor.
Dem Use Their Mind Do The Work - For Ghana		They Offered Themselves Willingly - In Ghana
I learn say disciple of Christ go dey " gentle with everybody. " - 2 Tim.		I learned that a true follower of Jesus " needs to be gentle toward all. " - 2 Tim.
How this matter serious reach?		How serious is this matter?
If we pray about this matter and think am well before we choose, go help us do wetin go make am bless us.		From these Scriptural points, along with prayers for guidance, can we not perceive 's thinking?
After, Jesus talk say na e be the vine, and e disciples na the different - different branch.		Jesus likened himself to a vine, or stem, and his followers to branches.
After the war, I pioneer for two years for southern Ireland.		After the war, I pioneered for two years in southern Ireland.
After three years, dem call us come Bethel.		Three years later, we were invited to Bethel.
All this one help our children know brothers and sisters. And, apart from sey dem see as their God, e come be their Father and Friend.		All of this helped our children to get to know the brothers and to get to know, not only as their God but also as their Father and Friend.
And make we no leave dem, or dey get problem with dem.		We need loyal friendships and peace with all of them.
Another place for Psalm 119 talk sey: ' The things wey you dey talk sweet for my tongue no be small! Dem sweet pass honey for my mouth! '		The psalmist went on to say: " How sweet your sayings are to my palate, more so than honey to my mouth! "
Anything wey talk must happen. ( Isa.		Once he gives the word for something to happen, it is as good as done.
Around 1920, when Johannes Rauthe dey preach		Johannes Rauthe engaging in the field ministry, probably in the 1920 ' s
As na me be manager for the company, my own na to bribe the person wey dey collect tax make e no put eye for the bad thing wey the company dey do.		As managing director, I was expected to come to ' an agreement ' with the tax agent by bribing him to overlook the company 's fraudulent practices.
As the bad things wey dey happen for this world dey plenty more more, make we ' hate wetin bad ' the way hate am. ( Ps.		As this world sinks deeper and deeper into debauchery, we must " hate what is bad, " as does.
As this people dey study Bible, dem come dey see sey wetin Bible talk different from wetin church dey teach.		They were thus in a position to compare the teachings of God 's Word with the dogmas of the church.
Because dem don sin, dem no fit copy character well again.		No longer perfect, man could not reflect God 's qualities perfectly.
Because na give us life, make e be the only Person wey go tell us wetin to do.		As humans, our place is under 's righteous rule.
Before, na Job " rich pass for all the people wey dey East. "		Before his trial, he was " the greatest of all the people of the East. "
But, make dem sofri; make dem let the brother or sister choose by imself wetin e go do. Why?		Still, the elders are careful to allow individual brothers and sisters to make their own decisions.
But the truth be sey, e no easy to choose wetin we go use our life do.		Of course, making plans can be challenging.
But you go remain, you go dey alive and you go happy forever!		On the contrary, you will remain - alive and joyful - for all eternity!
Dem dey call the plane doodlebugs.		Those flying bombs were called doodlebugs.
E dey different from person wey dey do wetin im body want. E dey " follow God example. "		Spiritually - minded individuals strive to " become imitators of God. "
E fit be sey the husband or wife of one of servant never start to serve.		In some cases, a Christian is married to one who is not yet a servant of.
E get one time wey Hezekiah let this kind thing happen to am.		On one occasion, the Examiner of hearts exposed what was in Hezekiah 's heart.
E get sense, e sabi Bible well well and e love us. That one still help us continue to enjoy our work. We still get another anointed brother wey dem dey call Harry Peterson.		His wisdom and exceptional knowledge of the Scriptures were a positive influence on all of us, and he took a personal interest in each of us.
E know sey you trust people wey dey use direct im organization. So, e go always do wetin go make you stop to trust dem. E no dey tire!		He never gives up trying to undermine your confidence in the leadership that has provided.
E no dey the hand of person wey dey waka even to direct imself. '		It does not belong to man who is walking even to direct his step. "
For 1962, they invite me to attend the Kingdom Ministry School, for one city wey the name na South Lansing, for New York.		In 1962, I was invited to attend the Kingdom Ministry School at South Lansing, New York.
For 1995, dem come form one congregation for Balykchy. This na eight years after the first time wey we go Balykchy.		In 1995 a congregation was formed in Balykchy - eight years after our first visit to that town.
Get am for mind sey, person wey want follow Jesus need to baptize.		If we keep that clearly in mind, we will communicate more effectively with our students.
God go still resurrect many many people wey no know am before dem die.		Millions of humans who died without knowing God will also be resurrected.
Hebrews 11: 13 talk about some people wey live for Bible time, e talk sey: ' All this people die but dem still get faith for wetin God don promise even though dem no see when e happen; dem see am from far far and accept am. '		Hebrews 11: 13 says of some who lived in pre - Christian times: " In faith all of these died, although they did not receive the fulfillment of the promises; but they saw them from a distance and welcomed them. "
How Aaron see wetin e do with im life?		How does he view the course he has taken?
I know sey all of us na one, no matter where person go for this world; I don read am many times for our book dem.		I knew that we are an international brotherhood; I had read it many times in our literature.
I like Convention, so I happy sey I put hand for Convention work.		Conventions had always been a highlight for me, so it was delightful to help organize these events.
If e dey show the better character of God holy spirit, e go dey do wetin go make im wife respect am well well.		He needs to consider what will bring long - term results.
If person wey dey serve think sey dem no treat am well for congregation, make e sofri so that e no go start to use the matter do amebo or aproko.		When a Christian believes that he is the victim of injustice, he should be careful not to engage in harmful gossip.
If you dey face this kind problem, the example of Noah, Daniel, and Job fit help you.		If so, take courage from the examples of Noah, Daniel, and Job.
If you dey support dem, your body go sweet you when Jesus go tell you sey: ' Just as una do am to the one wey small pass among my brothers, una don do am to me. ' - Matt.		How happy you will feel when your Leader, Jesus, says: " To the extent that you did it to one of the least of these my brothers, you did it to me. " - Matt.
If your answer na yes, ask yourself why e be like that.		If so, ask yourself why.
Im disciples dey do mistake. But e still trust dem sey dem go fit do the work and dem go do pass am.		Though his disciples were imperfect, he had confidence in them and told them that they would do works greater than he did.
Im husband want make e follow am go birthday wey person for im family dey do, but the woman get convention wey e want go.		Her husband agreed that she could attend the convention.
come end Job problem and e give am double of wetin e first get.		removed Job 's tribulation and restored his prosperity. gave him double what he had before.
Jesus disciples see the miracle wey e do, hear wetin e talk, and see how e treat different different people. Dem still see how e take follow wetin talk.		Jesus ' disciples saw his miracles, heard his discourses, watched how he dealt with all kinds of people, and observed how he applied godly principles.
Love dey mek us endure.		Love motivates us to endure.
Make our brothers and sisters and everybody wey see us talk sey, true true, we dey serve the true God.		Our brothers and sisters as well as people in general should be able to see that we fittingly represent our righteous God.
Many of the congregation dey new, and people no many.		Most of the congregations were relatively small and new.
Maybe e get one style of clothe wey you like, but you don see am sey some brothers and sisters for your congregation fit no like am.		Consider another example: Suppose you are drawn to a certain style of dress that could possibly disturb some in the congregation.
Me and my wife go fit talk sey all the time wey we don spend for full - time service, na ' the happiness wey dey give dey protect us. ' - Neh.		Livija and I can truthfully say that during our years in full - time service, " the joy of [ has been our ] stronghold. " - Neh.
NA get everything for heaven and earth. ( 1 Chron.		is the wealthiest Person in the universe.
Na from our room wey dey upstair, we hear wetin dey happen.		We heard all of that from our room upstairs.
Na so e still be for us, the more we dey near when this world go end, e go dey hard us to pursue sleep comot.		Likewise, the closer we get to the end of this system of things, the greater the challenge for us to stay awake.
Na this kind big work give Solomon. - 1 Chron.		directed that Solomon be the overseer of this project. - 1 Chron.
No, you no go ever regret am.		No, you definitely should not.
No be everybody get am.		Not all humans possess it.
One get copper and people for United States start to dey use am well well for 1988.		One type of IUD that incorporates copper became widely available in the United States by 1988.
One thing be sey, person wey get love dey put eye for wetin go favor other people.		For one thing, it seeks the other person 's advantage.
Paul use the example of person wey be boxer for im time, when e talk sey: ' The way I take dey target my blow no be to dey blow breeze. ' ( 1 Cor.		Drawing on the example of a boxer of ancient times, Paul said of himself: " The way I am aiming my blows is so as not to be striking the air. "
People wey dey study wetin happen for olden days talk sey Rome people don turn to " Christian. " But the truth be sey, fake Christian don start to teach lie lie like other fake religion for Rome. So, dem don be part of Babylon the Great.		The truth is that by that time an apostate form of Christianity had joined the pagan religious organizations of the Roman Empire as members of Babylon the Great.
People wey do wetin like, go dey alive. This one go show sey human being fit support as their King.		Do you want to be among those who go on record as integrity - keeping supporters of 's sovereignty?
Religion matter dey tire this kind people. And to dem, e no get anything wey person fit gain from religion.		This example of worldly thinking appeals to many people because they view religion as dull and irrelevant.
Roman soldier no de go war when e no wear e shoe.		A Roman soldier who was not wearing his boots was not ready to march into battle.
Rutherford come go where person wey dey give talk dey stand.		Rutherford stepped up to the speaker 's stand.
So, make we no let problem wey don happen or wey never happen, come dey worry our mind join today own.		With conviction he said: " Happy is the one whose transgression is pardoned. " - Read Psalm 32: 1 - 3, 5.
So, we surprise when dem tell us sey na one place wey dem dey call Cambodia we want go do missionary work!		We were therefore surprised to receive a new assignment - as missionaries in Cambodia!
So papa and mama need to teach their children how to do am. The example of their papa and mama go help dem well well.		And as is the case with all qualities that their children need to learn, parents should set the example.
Some people fit see sey dem dey use too much time dey watch sport or film, to design their house, dey find new new style of cloth, dey put money for different different business, dey think about how dem go take taste different different drink, and other things.		Some may find that they are focusing on trying different types of wine, decorating the home, finding new clothing styles, making investments, planning vacation trips, and the like.
Sometimes we dey sitdown under one iron table wey dem make so that if the house fall, e no go fall on top dem.		At times, we sat under an iron table designed to protect them if the house collapsed.
The McCartney family come show me one sister wey love, im name na Bethel Crane.		On this visit, the McCartneys introduced me to a lovely theocratic sister, Bethel Crane.
The shoe wey Roman soldiers de wear de help them for war.		While the literal boots worn by Roman soldiers carried them into war, the symbolic footwear worn by Christians helps them deliver a message of peace.
The sister talk sey: ' The brothers for there treat us like their family person. Dem give us food, clothes, where to stay, and transport money.		She said: " The brothers there treated them like close relatives, providing food, clothes, shelter, and transportation.
The three of dem get sin for body like us, and dem face some of the wahala wey we dey face. Some problem wey dem face almost kill dem, but dem no leave side.		They were imperfect, and they faced many of the challenges we face, including some that were life threatening.
The way we take dey preach na the correct way because we dey go meet people.		By going to the people, we are also using the correct methods.
Under " Teenagers, " you go see " Young People Ask - Why Should I Pray?		For more suggestions, see " Young People Ask - Why Should I Pray? "
We dey study Bible for meeting and dey teach us wetin we go do and how we go take live our life.		At the meetings, we study the Bible and learn from what we should do and how we should live.
We send this brother make e tell the Ambassador about the kind work wey Witness people de do for that African country.		He was to tell the official about the peaceful work of 's in his country.
We start to study with many Kyrgyz student wey dey go technical school.		We had numerous Bible studies with young Kyrgyz students at educational institutes.
Wetin Bible mean when e sey dey show us im favor for ' different different way '?		What does it mean that 's undeserved kindness is " expressed in various ways "?
Wetin promise im people dey help dem bear any problem wey fit make dem stop to serve.		By promising his worshippers a reward, helps to sustain them during tests of integrity.
Wetin be some things wey we change for our new songbook to make am better? How you fit learn our new song well?		What improvements have been made in the new songbook, and how can you make the best use of it?
Wetin fit spoil our better character?		What challenge faces God 's people today?
Wetin make Anna mind sweet am, even with im problem?		What helped the widow Anna to find joy?
Wetin papa and mama wey dey stay another place go do about this one?		What can immigrant parents do?
Wetin we fit learn from how Abraham take be God friend?		What can we learn from how Abraham became God 's friend?
What of you?		What about you personally?
When I reach the island for 1949, dem put us for different different camp.		When I arrived in early 1949, the prisoners were divided into several camps.
When dem come visit or work for their country, you fit give dem place to stay? - 3 John 5 - 8.		Could you provide them with accommodations when they return to their country of origin to work or to visit? - 3 John 5 - 8.
When one circuit overseer dey talk about when e dey young, e talk sey: " One thing wey help me know sey Bible na God word, na when I read am finish.		Thinking back on his youth, a circuit overseer said: " One thing that helped me to appreciate that the Bible is the Word of God was reading it right through.
Which two things give correct Christians hope?		What two factors contributed to a slight loosening of the grip of Babylon the Great on the people?
Why E Good Make We Praise Jah?		Visions of Zechariah - How They Affect You, Oct.
Why e good make dem settle the matter about how dey rule?		Why must the issue of sovereignty be settled?
Why the ransom wey God give us through Jesus Christ be the best gift wey they fit give person?		Why is God 's gift of the ransom through Jesus the best gift we could receive?
You still need to help am think about this kind question: ' Why Bible sey make we no dey do things wey our body want?		You would also do well to help them reason on such questions as: ' Why does the Bible forbid things that can be appealing to the flesh?
But, we still need to do pass that one.		However, more is involved than simply acquiring head knowledge.
Na this ransom take show sey e love us well well and e still show us how im favor plenty reach.		The ransom sacrifice of Christ is the greatest proof of God 's love for us and illustrates the richness of His undeserved kindness.
Joseph na friend and e dey serve am well. So e go don pain when e see as dem treat Joseph.		saw what was happening and no doubt was grieved to observe the way his friend, righteous Joseph, was being treated.
E dey make us happy to see as this thing dey happen for our time!		How happy we are to see this prophecy undergoing fulfillment before our eyes!
Do research, e go make you see other things for our book dem wey fit help you.		No doubt, research in our Christian publications can help you to locate relevant material that will further help you.
So High Priest Caiaphas come arrange make they kill Jesus. - John 11: 49 - 53; 18: 14.		Thus, High Priest Caiaphas took the lead in plotting Jesus ' death. - John 11: 49 - 53; 18: 14.
E no dey happy if we dey suffer, and e no want make we join for ' pikin wey suppose die, ' because of the sin wey we get from Adam. - Eph.		He takes no pleasure in our suffering; nor does he want us to die as " children of wrath, " which is the prospect inherited from Adam. - Eph.
How Septuagint and other Bible wey dem translate that time take help people?		How did the Septuagint and other early translations affect readers of God 's Word?
Wetin King Solomon talk about better word?		What observation did King Solomon make?
You Love Me Pass This Things? '		Do You Love Me More Than These? "
No Let Devil Spoil Your Mind		Winning the Battle for Your Mind
About 14 million people leave their house.		Some 14 million refugees were displaced.
Adam happy to see im fine wife and e come later call am Eve.		Adam was delighted with his lovely wife, whom he later named Eve.
After, when Jesus come this earth, Satan tempt am. But Jesus use im freedom well, e no fall for Satan. ( Matt.		Later, when Jesus was on earth, he exercised his free will to reject the temptations of the great Adversary.
After some weeks, one of the teacher follow go convention for where dem dey call Leipzig.		Several weeks later, one of the teachers attended a convention in Leipzig.
After this man look wetin other people write about health matter, e talk sey: " If person dey happy with im life now, e go fit still make im body strong as time dey go. "		That is what a researcher at the University of Nebraska in the United States wrote after reviewing a number of studies on health.
All of us fit choose the kind friend wey we want follow waka, style of cloth or hair, and the film or music wey we want listen to or watch.		All of us have freedom of choice regarding associations, styles of dress and grooming, and entertainment.
And if dem do like that, dem go dey strong more more as dem dey serve.		Those who do will go ' from strength to strength. '
And na im own dey important pass. ( Acts 26: 23 ) But no be only Jesus dem promise sey go resurrect go heaven as spirit.		He is not, though, the only one promised to be resurrected to heaven as a spirit creature.
Apart from that one, when we give the things wey we value, we dey praise am. - Prov.		Moreover, when we give our valuable things to, we honor him. - Prov.
As dem handle the matter well, my mind no come dey judge me again.		After the matter was handled properly, I didn 't have to feel guilty anymore.
As e be like that, e make sense sey na only dem go dey worship; dem go take all their mind, body and power love am, nothing go remain.		That being so, it logically followed that they were to render him exclusive devotion, loving him unreservedly with all their heart, soul, and strength.
Before some people start to serve, dem first dey do wetin no good.		One thing is that we may need to flee from the temptation to break one of God 's laws.
Brother Gust drive our boat well for 30 days pass strong breeze and rain until we reach Bahamas area.		Gust skillfully navigated our craft for 30 days through dangerous storms until we reached the Bahamas.
Brother Rutherford come tell dem make dem sitdown listen.		The speaker earnestly urged them to sit down and listen.
But, e good to dey tell people better word.		On the other hand, encouragement is a power for good.
But dey bless the people wey trust am. '		But blesses those who lean on him.
But after all of dem don die, some people come ' start to talk wetin different ' so that dem go ' draw the disciples comot follow body. ' ( Acts 20: 30; 2 Thess.		However, especially after the death of the apostles, men arose who spoke " twisted things " in order to " draw away the disciples after themselves. "
But anytime brothers from Bethel come give talk for our congregation, my mama dey arrange make dem stay for our house.		But when speakers from Bethel visited, my mother often had them stay in our home.
But as dem dey waka comot, e just be like sey the soldier no see dem.		Yet, as they walked away, it seemed as if the soldiers were staring right through them.
But even with all this one, e still choose us as im friend.		Yet, this did not prevent from wanting us as his friends.
But what if you no dey too enjoy preaching?		But what if you find little joy in preaching?
Daniel papa and mama go don teach am to love and im Word.		Daniel was evidently well - instructed by his parents, who taught him to love and his written Word.
Dem come dey talk sey: ' Sing one of una Zion song for us. '		Their captors jeered: " Sing for us one of the songs of Zion. "
Dem dey make this kind person mind dey come down small small, and wetin e do no go too dey worry am again.		calls these older men " a refuge from the rainstorm. "
Dem no born us with faith, and e no dey come by imself.		Faith is not a quality that sinful humans are born with; nor does it develop naturally.
Dem put mind for wetin Bible talk for Psalm 37: 5: ' Put everything wey you want do for hand, trust am, and e go stand for you. '		They trusted in the promise found at Psalm 37: 5: " Commit your way to; rely on him, and he will act in your behalf. "
E don reach like 50 years now wey Gianni and Maurizio don be friend.		Gianni and Maurizio have been friends for some 50 years.
E get one old woman wey don baptize for different different religion. This woman ask the sister wey dey study with am if e need to baptize again.		One elderly Bible student asked her teacher if it was really necessary to get baptized again; she had previously been baptized in different religions over the years.
E no tey after e baptize, e come dey go do exercise for where dem dey do exercise.		Shortly after he got baptized, he began training regularly at a fitness center.
E talk sey: ' I like to dey teach people about, but I no ever think sey I fit go preach for another country.		I liked teaching people about, " she says, " but I never imagined that I could serve abroad.
Even when we dey face problem, wetin go help us get the ' peace wey God dey give '?		What will help us to retain " the peace of God, " and how is this possible?
Everyday, we dey choose things wey we go do. And wetin we choose fit affect our life tomorrow.		Daily, we face decisions that could affect our lives for years to come.
For 1956, when Brother Nathan Knorr come the area where I dey, na me dem give the work to arrange convention for the country and to care for people wey go come.		In 1956 when Brother Nathan Knorr visited, I was assigned to care for public relations at the national convention.
For 2015, six brothers from Germany and Netherland come go support dem. If you see as the publishers happy ehn!		Imagine the joy of the publishers when in 2015, six need - greaters from Germany and the Netherlands moved in to support them!
For Bible time, dem dey look Scythian people as villagers, and dem no like dem.		In Bible times, Scythians were looked down on as uncivilized people.
For Bible time, person wey dey mold things no go just gather clay come begin mold.		In Bible times, a potter did not dig up some clay and immediately begin to shape it.
For Hebrew language and for other language, " one " fit mean different different thing.		The word " one " in Hebrew and many other languages can mean much more than a simple number.
For example, e get one sister wey im husband no be Witness. E get some days wey the husband choose for am to dey go preaching.		For example, one sister was told by her husband to share in the field ministry only on certain days of the week.
For example, one sister from Germany, wey im name na irin, write sey: " The brothers for Turkey preach for anywhere wey dem see people.		irin, a sister from Germany, wrote: " The brothers in Turkey witness informally with great ease.
For one house wey we de clean the windows, Gloria go clean from inside the house and I go clean from outside. When we start for morning, we go finish - am for evening.		In the home of one white family, we washed the windows - Gloria did it from the inside, and I did it from the outside.
For place wey dem no dey let us preach, brothers dey use their house take do Kingdom Hall. This one dey help many pioneers and other brothers wey no too get money. Dem dey see free place to do meeting.		In a land where the work is restricted, brothers make their homes available for use as local Kingdom Halls, allowing many pioneers and others with limited funds to have a meeting place without a financial burden.
For the prayer, e talk sey im people ' no get power reach this plenty people wey dey come fight dem; and dem no know wetin dem go do. '		In prayer, he humbly admitted that his people were " powerless before this large crowd " and that he and his people did not know what to do.
For this topic, we go learn four things wey go help us support only God Kingdom.		In this article, we will consider four things that will help us to remain faithful to.
How Bible take show us sey e good to dey pity for people?		How does God 's Word, such as at 1 John 3: 17, help us learn to show compassion?
How go take show us im favor for the new world?		How will show his undeserved kindness in the new world?
How Jesus and im disciple dem take preach?		What methods did Jesus and his disciples use to preach the good news?
How we fit make God name dey holy?		How can we share in sanctifying God 's name?
I don ask my mama about Witness people before. E answer me say, " Oh, them de worship one old man wey e name na. "		Years before, when I asked my mother about 's, she simply said, " Oh, they worship some old man named. "
If to sey you dey that time, wetin you for do as Eli no fit correct im pikin?		Had you lived in Eli 's day, how would you have reacted to Eli 's toleration of the sins committed by his sons?
Japan soldier come enter Philippines.		The Japanese army invaded the Philippines.
come tell Israel people sey make dem dey contribute wetin dem get to support this Levites. And this one help the Levites put eye for work wey dem dey do for tabernacle. ( Num.		Rather, the Israelites gave them a tithe, or a tenth part, that allowed the Levites to focus on their work at the tabernacle.
Joseph sofri wait for.		What helped Joseph to wait patiently?
Make e do everything wey e don talk sey e go do. '		He should do everything he vowed he would do. "
Make we come talk about the sixth and seventh vision wey Zechariah see.		Let us see how, by means of Zechariah 's sixth and seventh visions, stirred them to action.
Me and my sister go de change days so that one person fit remain for house.		My older sister was then a senior in high school, and Dad asked if she and I could go to school on alternate days.
Muriel talk sey: " Before, e like to dey preach with im language French, but now e no come dey happy to preach with another language. "		It annoyed him to go out in the ministry in another language, whereas before he loved preaching in his native language, French, " says Muriel.
Na and Jesus get this character pass.		Both and Jesus have set perfect examples of exercising this quality.
Na work. " - 2 Cor.		It is for. " - 2 Cor.
Na because Bible talk am.		One reason is that the Bible specifically says so.
Na the same thing with missionary, people wey dey work for Bethel and remote translation office, and circuit overseer and their wife.		The same is true of missionaries, Bethelites, circuit overseers and their wives, and those who work in remote translation offices.
Nathan no talk to am anyhow. Instead, e use one story wey e know sey go touch David mind, take start the matter.		He chose to broach the subject with an illustration that could touch the heart of the former shepherd.
No waste time to do things wey you dey learn		Zealously apply the things you learn
Our Faith Go Make Bless Us, Apr.		Parents, Help Your Children Build Faith, Sept.
Our baptism go show sey ' we be own. ' ( Rom.		Our baptism shows that " we belong to. "
People for South Africa don still see sey Witness people get better character.		More recently, observers in South Africa noticed similar attractive qualities among God 's people.
Pray with dem about the matter. Do things wey go help dem get new friend for the congregation.		Help them to make new friends by arranging opportunities for upbuilding association.
So, e make sense to talk sey since e dey character to do the correct thing, we believe sey e go always judge any matter well.		Logically, since is the ultimate standard of righteousness, his view of matters will always be just.
Some of dem don even comot for organization.		A number have even left the way of the truth.
The brother stop im bicycle, come tell me sey make I sitdown on top one wood with am.		The brother stopped his bicycle and asked me to sit down with him on a log.
The city ' wey dem choose come dey special. '		The cities were given " a sacred status. "
The eighth vision go teach us how take dey protect im people so that dem go fit serve am well.		The eighth vision will teach us how provides secure protection in order for his worshippers to engage in true worship.
Then for 2013, branch office for Puerto Rico come join with branch office for United States.		Then, in 2013 the Puerto Rico branch was merged with the United States branch, and I was asked to serve at Wallkill, New York.
This fine character wey the holy spirit dey help us get, really show the kind person wey be.		These positive qualities that are produced by God 's active force reflect the very personality of the almighty God.
This program no get advert, or other things wey no correct wey people for this world dey talk.		We can trust these products to be free of advertisements or contamination by Satan 's world.
True true, e dey pain well well if dem disfellowship our person. But know sey this arrangement go favor everybody, even the person wey dem disfellowship.		His arrangement can bring the best long - term outcome for all, including the wrongdoer, even though the immediate effect is painful.
Ummi tell Don sey: ' I go read this book because anything wey fit change my brother like this na better thing. '		She told Don: " I will read the book because anything that could reach my brother must be something special. "
We go answer all this question for this topic.		This article will help us to answer those questions.
We go happy to see our people.		That is an intriguing prospect.
We share pass 20,000 small small book. And we dey send the name of people wey want learn Bible to Britain branch office.		We visited all the homes in the southeast of the Republic without much trouble at all, distributing over 20,000 booklets and passing on to the Britain branch office the names of interested people.
Wetin Paul mean when e talk sey: " When I dey weak, na that time I get power "?		What did the apostle Paul mean when he wrote: " When I am weak, then I am powerful "?
Wetin Satan talk about Job?		What was Satan 's claim with regard to Job?
Wetin be some things for Bible wey they fit guide person about how to care for our body?		What are some medical principles found in the Bible?
Wetin be the first thing wey husband and wife go do?		What should be the first priority of Christian married couples?
Wetin one overseer do when one brother talk to am anyhow? And wetin we fit learn from that one?		How did one overseer react to harsh words, and what can we learn from his example?
Wetin people know about the area wey the fight for happen match wetin dey Bible. - wp16.5, p.		The recorded geographic details match known facts. - wp16.5, p.
Wetin we fit gain if we read dem, even if we no be young people?		When we do so, we are reminded of what our faithful young people are facing.
When e dey study, e fit talk the correct answer.		During his Bible study, he may answer correctly.
When we follow wetin want make we do after we sin, we dey show sey we believe wetin promise, sey e go forgive us.		By availing ourselves of 's arrangements, we show that we trust in his promise to heal and forgive us.
Which kind things fit make person leave im husband or wife go stay im own?		What are valid reasons for separation?
Why we fit call some truth for Bible ' old ' things? And which one you like pass?		Why might we refer to some truths as " old, " and what are some that you especially treasure?
You don ever watch film, come see sey dem dey deceive person? How e do you?		Have you ever watched a film in which, from your vantage point in the audience, you can clearly see that someone is being deceived and manipulated?
If we get this one for mind, e go make us no dey worry too much and we no go tire.		That knowledge guards us from becoming overwhelmed by anxiety or discouragement.
Na once everything just take change for Paul and Silas!		How quickly everything changed!
My husband, Bienvenido, wey be policeman before, baptize for 1979. And my mama don start to study Bible with Witness people before e die.		My husband, Bienvenido, who had been a policeman, got baptized in 1979, and my mother began to study the Bible not long before she died.
For our time how God want make marriage be?		In the Christian congregation, what would be the standard for marriage?
Wetin refugee need as dem just come?		What do refugees initially need?
Explain how Jesus take be The Person wey go grow come out.		Explain how the man named Sprout is prophetic of Jesus Christ.
How the things wey Jew people want affect the disciples?		How did those sentiments affect Jesus ' disciples?
Talk about how Brother Russell take learn the truth.		Describe Brother Russell 's quest for the truth.
Which people example we go talk about?		What examples of spiritual people will we consider?
Paul dey help us know sey no matter the problem wey we dey face for this life, go help us if we trust am.		The apostle 's words assure us that no matter what trials may arise in our life, will sustain us if we trust in him.
Wetin e mean to get as our one and only God?		In what sense is our worship of exclusive?
Dey Do Good Now and You Go Happy!		The Delightful Course of Hospitality - So Needed!
Titus 1: 10 ) Follow the advice wey apostle Paul give Timothy.		Follow the advice given to the young man Timothy.
Do things wey show sey you love brothers and sisters for your congregation whether na for Kingdom Hall, for preaching, when una dey chop together, or as una dey talk for phone.		Look for ways to show genuine interest in others at the Kingdom Hall, in the ministry, while enjoying a meal together, or as you converse on the telephone.
Prov. 24: 10 ) Bible show why e good make we dey let God law direct us. ( Rom.		Bear in mind that God 's Word shows the wisdom of being " a slave to God 's law. "
Dem still get Law wey help dem to arrange the tabernacle and their camp well as dem dey waka from place to place.		The moving of the Israelite camp and the tabernacle took place in an orderly way.
But e good make we dey praise dem from our mind.		However, we must be sincere.
So Moses want make dem remember sey na only dem suppose worship.		Thus, Moses was reminding the Israelites that their worship of must be exclusive.
After Kevin don baptize, e no stop to dey change the kind person wey im be because na that one go help am be better Christian.		After his baptism, did Kevin stop making changes in his life?
And I study Bible with e daughter and husband.		Meanwhile, I started a study with the couple 's daughter and her husband.
And many of dem no live for the same time and dem no know each other.		And many of them lived at different times and did not know one another personally. "
And now, dem go spend money pass before. Some things go still change when the pikin don land.		And there will be an economic impact to consider, both immediate and long - term.
Another thing be sey, e go make people know sey we dey the true religion.		Furthermore, our appropriate attire will reflect well on the organization we represent.
Any blessing pass this one?		What a blessing!
Around that same time, my mama come London and accept Bible study from Brother John E. Barr.		About that time, my mother moved to London and accepted a Bible study from John E.
As e see sey dem don change, e come let dem know sey na im be Joseph their brother.		When he saw that his brothers had truly changed, Joseph identified himself to them.
As time dey go, im mama come tell one elder make e go visit Hans for prison.		At first, life in prison did not change Hans ' aggressive personality.
Baptism wey correct for God eye na the one wey person do after e don learn the truth about.		Yes, valid baptism is based on an accurate knowledge of 's will.
Bible talk sey make we follow law if we want choose wetin we go do; make we no overdo.		God 's Word explains that our freedom has boundaries and that we must observe the limits appropriately places on us.
But e trowey their advice!		But he rejected their advice!
But even with that one, two of dem use one mind serve together.		It seems that they differed in personality.
But for country wey money dey, their own na to dey buy cloth wey cost, new house and to get the motor wey dey reign.		In wealthier lands, the urge may be to acquire a lavish wardrobe, a bigger house, or a more expensive automobile.
But na net wey dem take dey catch fish e go use. And because to use this net no be small work, na plenty fisherman go gather do the work. - Luke 5: 1 - 11.		Rather, it involved the use of fishing nets - a labor - intensive activity that at times required the coordinated efforts of many. - Luke 5: 1 - 11.
But no forget sey want make you praise am with song. So no let anything make you stop to sing.		That, however, should not interfere with your responsibility to sing praises to.
But we want make continue to love us.		To benefit from 's loyal love and to avoid his wrath, we have to hate what he hates.
But wetin dem do before dem fit baptize?		What steps led up to their baptism?
But wetin dem gain pass the things wey dem suffer. - Read Mark 10: 29, 30.		Yet, they have gained far more than they have lost. - Read Mark 10: 29, 30.
But when dem marry, dem come see sey no be so e be. E fit make dem come dey vex and even tire for the marriage.		When dreams about a happy marriage do not come true, a person may feel dissatisfied, cheated, even bitter.
But you go continue to dey carry body down?		If you have privileges in the congregation, perhaps with a measure of prominence, will you strive to maintain a humble view of yourself?
Dem teach am about and e become Witness.		Emil was sent to a labor camp and met the there.
Dey pray sey make help you.		Continue to pray for help.
Doctors talk sey gain dey if we dey pity people and ready to help dem.		Mental - health experts say that practicing compassion can improve your health, well - being, and relationships.
E come ask me say, " Brother Herd, everything dey fine? "		Is everything all right, Brother Herd?
E dey cause pain for family if pikin stop to serve or dem disfellowship am, even when papa and mama don try teach am way.		Despite a Christian upbringing, however, some children later leave the truth or are disfellowshipped, causing the family heartache.
E dey clear say Satan take time study this angels.		He must have studied them for a considerable time before luring them into taking sides with him.
E go forgive anybody wey run go meet am. ' - PS.		is redeeming the life of his servants; none of those taking refuge in him will be found guilty. " - PS.
E go help you see how you go take dey do wetin you dey learn from Bible.		Also on jw.org, the study guides " What Does the Bible Really Teach? "
E go still help dem see the correction wey their papa and mama dey give dem as part of the love wey get for dem.		Moreover, they learn to view parental discipline as an expression of love that reflects 's love.
E go still make us near more more. Wetin Devil talk about how God take dey rule?		On the other hand, the keener our appreciation for the vindication of 's sovereignty, the better equipped we are to meet challenges in our daily lives.
E know sey this na bad thing wey dey hungry many young people to do. Kim show sey e get sense as e no join dem. ( 2 Tim.		Yet, Kim was wise enough to know that among many youths the temptation to engage in sex is great.
E no reach one year, we do another convention and Brother Frederick Franz from world headquarter visit us.		Less than a year later, another national convention was arranged and Brother Frederick Franz from world headquarters visited.
E stand well when e face temptation? E preach to person for school?		Has a youth successfully faced a test of integrity or taken advantage of an opportunity to give a witness at school?
E still allow you draw body near am and learn about am, and e give you hope sey your tomorrow go better. When you put first for your life, e dey show sey you like all this things wey e don do for you.		Giving priority to spiritual matters is a way of showing gratitude to God for these blessings, and that brings you closer to him.
E want make people dey see am as oga for the congregation. This im bad character fit make person dey wonder whether e still dey side.		Diotrephes ' desire for prominence and his unchristian attitude called into question his loyalty.
Even when we dey face wahala, how we fit get the ' peace wey God dey give '?		How can we face challenges and still retain " the peace of God "?
Every day get im own problem.		He trusted in 's mercy and forgiveness.
Grigory na circuit overseer. E do this work from 1970 go reach 1995. E sabi make person laugh and e dey always happy.		One regular visitor was my brother Grigory, who served as a traveling overseer from 1970 to 1995.
How I fit help them do wetin go make happy? '		How can I encourage them to follow 's ways? '
How Jesus take show sey e know wetin want make e do?		How did Jesus perceive what wanted him to do?
How elders go take know person wey no happy for wetin e do and wey ready to change?		How can elders discern heartfelt repentance?
How the journey be for dem?		What would that journey have been like?
How the things wey we don talk about fit help us?		How can the foregoing help us?
How this one go take help dem?		How would being hospitable help them?
How we take know sey no be only the bad things wey 1 Corinthians 6: 9 - 11 talk about we need to comot hand from?		How do we know that being a Christian involves more than leaving behind the practice of serious sins?
I dey fit forgive people more, and I dey patient with dem pass before. E don easy for me to dey bear things wey people do me, and to dey take people advice. "		I am more generous in being forgiving, in being patient with others, and in being able to accept disappointments and counsel. "
I fit talk this one about them because they really love to serve God, but they no de do - am for the right way. " ( Rom.		What reasons for continuing his ministry did Paul highlight?
I waka comot, go think about wetin the circuit overseer talk.		With my head down, I walked away to think about what he had said.
If demonstration dey, two of us go dey platform and nobody go dey to listen!		If the part called for a demonstration, both of us would be on the platform with no one in the audience!
If e dey hard person to control imself sometimes, wetin fit help am?		What should be encouraging to any who are struggling to exercise self - control?
If you get am for mind, no waste time. Make you go help this people wey want learn about.		If so, we encourage you: " Lift up your eyes and view the fields, that they are white for harvesting. "
go always help us no matter wetin we dey suffer. '		is always there to help us, regardless of our circumstances. "
Make bless you for wetin you don do. ' - Ruth 2: 8 - 12.		May reward you for what you have done. " - Ruth 2: 8 - 12.
Many people wey write book for olden days, write only better better things about their leader and their country.		Many ancient writers flattered their leaders and glorified their kingdoms.
Many things dey happen for organization now.		We live in exciting times.
Moses grow for Pharaoh house. That one for don make am put mind for money and to make big name.		Raised by the daughter of Pharaoh, Moses could have set his goals on attaining prominence or economic security.
Na because the woman trust, na im make e still dey go worship for temple.		The widow 's trust moved her to support the existing arrangement for true worship.
Na im make dem get hope to go heaven.		Then they had the heavenly hope.
Na so because dem no get better things to take fight, or to protect theirself. But King Jabin army carry 900 horse wey get iron. - Judg.		From a military standpoint, they were ill - equipped, having neither offensive weapons nor defensive armor, whereas their enemies had 900 war chariots with iron scythes. - Judg.
Na wetin people go take know sey una be my disciple, if una get love among unaself. ' - John 13: 34, 35.		By this all will know that you are my disciples - if you have love among yourselves. " - John 13: 34, 35.
No be wetin dey happen for every country we fit talk about for here.		It is impossible to consider here every conceivable situation in every different land.
Or you fit give dem work when dem come visit their country? - Acts 18: 1 - 3.		Or could you offer them a job when they return temporarily to their country of origin? - Acts 18: 1 - 3.
Other people no like religion because many of dem dey teach hellfire, dey collect tithe and dey support politics.		Also, many religions turn people away from God by teaching hellfire, collecting tithes, or preaching politics.
Our Papa for heaven dey sure sey the blessing wey e don promise must happen.		Our heavenly Father is so certain about the fulfillment of his promised blessings that to him they are already a reality.
Our second daughter Olga dey stay Estonia, and e dey always call me for phone.		Our daughter Olga lives in Estonia and regularly calls me.
People wey no be Witness don really see sey we different from other people.		Such comments by non - show that our international brotherhood is truly unique.
Russell: " I dey read Bible every day and I dey beg when I dey pray make e help me.		Russell: " Supplicating in prayer and a daily dose of Bible reading helped me.
Seven of us dey hide study Bible together, even though sey we fit enter trouble if dem catch us.		Although it was strictly forbidden, the seven of us secretly met together to study the Bible.
So, ask am: " If na human being dey make akara, who you think sey na im make apple? "		You might ask: " If the recipe for the cake had a writer, who wrote the much more complex recipe for the apple? "
The elders come arrange make circuit overseer visit am.		Then the elders arranged for the circuit overseer to make a shepherding visit on Takuya.
The first thing wey you fit do na to prepare answer to question wey people for your school dey like to ask.		You could start by working out an answer to a question commonly raised by schoolmates, such as " Why do you believe in God? "
The light wey dey come from your face go continue to shine reach dem, O.		O, they walk in the light of your face.
The love wey e show us and the better things wey e tell us, really make our mind come down.		His loving and compassionate words comforted us beyond measure.
The night before dem kill Jesus, e tell im disciples make dem carry sword. But no be because e want make dem use am protect theirself.		When Jesus told his followers to equip themselves with swords on the final night of his life on earth, he did not have protection in mind.
Think about wetin do for Lot.		Think of what God did for Lot.
This kind thing don happen to many brothers and sisters before.		Many can testify to this, based on their own experience.
This one go help us to dey think and do things like am. And e go still help us to put other people matter before our own.		As we imitate his self - sacrificing love, our thoughts and feelings will become more Christlike, and we will be moved to place the interests of others ahead of our own.
This one make the man start to study Bible and e come be witness.		This led to a Bible study, and this young man became one of our brothers.
Today, people no dey count sin as anything; dem dey feel sey na normal thing. Na im make many people no know sey we need ransom.		In this permissive world, sin has all but lost its stigma, so that many are unaware of the need for redemption.
Two of dem dey go the school wey I first go. E no tey, two of dem start to preach to their classmate.		Before long, the two girls shared with their classmates what they were learning.
We dey sure sey wey ' dey see wetin dey person mind, ' go make the truth grow for inside this kind people mind. - 1 Sam.		We can be sure that God, who " sees into the heart, " will make the truth grow in the hearts of rightly disposed ones. - 1 Sam.
We dey sure sey if we do like that, na be the person wey go bless us. - Read Colossians 3: 23, 24.		We can do this, knowing that it is from that we will receive the due reward. - Read Colossians 3: 23, 24.
Wetin Jesus do show sey e love people well well.		Jesus showed great love for others.
Wetin be some things wey fit make our family people give us problem? But how we fit show sey we dey feel for dem?		Why may unbelieving relatives oppose us, but how can we show them empathy?
Wetin help am?		What gave him the strength to do so?
Wetin husband suppose do if im wife wey no be Witness, no dey respect am?		What should a Christian husband do if his unbelieving wife does not respect him?
Wetin lie fit cause?		What is propaganda?
Wetin make God command us to love our neighbor?		Why are we commanded to love our neighbor?
When David be king, e dey im mind to build temple for.		Yet, at one point David confided in Nathan as you might confide in a friend.
When time reach wey Mary go carry Jesus for e belle, send one angel make e go tell Mary. The angel talk say: " I greet you!		When it came time for the Son of God to have his life transferred to the womb of Mary, sent an angel to speak to her.
Which Bible verse fit help you settle any problem wey you get with person?		What Bible principles do you find helpful in resolving personal conflicts?
Which people for Bible control theirself? And which people no control theirself?		What are some Bible examples of self - control and a lack of it?
Why e talk like that?		He will overlook my wrong deeds or actions. ' Why?
Why we suppose let other people use their freedom choose wetin dem want?		How can we show respect for the decisions of others?
You dey try make you no watch anything wey fit bring this kind bad thing come your mind?		Remember, any sacrifice we make to keep our integrity to is worth it.
wey dey March 15, 2013 Watchtower, I come really know sey want help me. "		in The Watchtower of March 15, 2013, I really felt that does want to help me. "
wey dey November 1, 2009, Watchtower.		in the November 1, 2009, issue of The Watchtower.
Because bad things dey full everywhere, many people no go get love again. ' - MATT.		Because of the increasing of lawlessness, the love of the greater number will grow cold. " - MATT.
Make we dey respect, praise and bless the Person wey sitdown for the throne and the Lamb. Na dem get the glory and power forever and ever. ' - REV.		To the One sitting on the throne and to the Lamb be the blessing and the honor and the glory and the might forever. " - REV.
Trust and do wetin good. do things wey show sey you dey serve am well. ' - PS.		Trust in and do what is good. and act with faithfulness. " - PS.
This one no mean sey we go sitdown fold our hand dey wait make solve the problem. Make we do wetin go show sey we want make our prayer work. ( Rom.		Of course, this does not mean that we sit back and do nothing, simply waiting for to correct the situation or solve the problem.
Make wetin God give dem reach dem.		Be content with God 's provisions.
Silvana, one pioneer sister wey e don pioneer for about 30 years talk say: " Before I enter any house go preach, I de pray make help me get good heart. "		Silvana, a pioneer for nearly 30 years, says, " Before I go to a house in my territory, I pray to, asking him to give me a positive attitude. "
Bible no tell us sey Israel people see angel wey do this three things for Moses.		The Bible does not report that the Israelites saw a materialized angel perform those duties.
Na this one make us know why Jacob even as e don nearly reach hundred years, still follow God angel fight, so that e go bless am.		This explains why Jacob when nearly 100 years old did everything in his power to obtain God 's blessing; he even wrestled with a materialized angel.
Isa. 6: 11; Hab.		HOW long?
Bible talk sey Jesus high pass all the people wey be king and wey don be king.		The Bible tells us that he is far superior to all men who are or have been kings.
Make we still dey pray everytime make God give us im holy spirit. God spirit go help us fight anything wey dey make us think sey we better pass other people. - Gal.		We also need to pray frequently for God 's spirit to help us fight any tendency of feeling superior to others. - Gal.
Wetin we fit do so that preaching no go de hard us?		What can help us be more comfortable when declaring the good news?
Ezek. 1: 1; 8: 1 ) After e write am, e no too tey, dem come destroy Jerusalem for 607 B.C.E.		Apostate Jerusalem was nearing its foretold destruction, which occurred in 607 B.C.E.
Wetin go happen to our faith if we dey show sey we love?		How are love and faith connected?
Even though sey Israel people suffer well well when dem be stranger for another land, want make dem dey treat stranger like their own people. - Lev.		The Israelites had experienced a bitter life as foreign residents, but expected them to treat the foreigner " like a native " among them. - Lev.
That day go sweet!		What a day that will be!
How we fit take copy people for Bible time wey use their mind contribute?		How can we imitate the generous servants of in Bible times?
Wetin we go get for mind as we dey study Bible?		As we study God 's Word, what should be our aim?
So make we no stop to dey make our faith strong and make we do everything wey we fit do to serve.		So let us now continue to strengthen our faith and to work whole - souled as to.
Remember sey ' time dey to keep quiet and time dey to talk. ' ( Eccl.		Bear in mind that there is " a time to be silent and a time to speak. "
The Pharisee dey feel sey dem better pass other people. Their own na to dey tell other people wetin dem go do. Dem no dey see the reason why God give the Law.		Unlike those self - righteous Pharisees, Jesus grasped the spirit behind the Law, the divine qualities reflected in each commandment.
After, e come talk some story wey the people e concern pass na the people wey go rule with am for heaven.		Then, he gave illustrations that applied primarily to all those with a heavenly hope.
How Gaius Take Help Im Brothers		How Gaius Helped His Brothers
E good make we use the power wey God spirit dey give us, so that we no go fall because of the wahala wey Satan and this wicked world dey give us. ( Ps. 18: 39; 1 Cor.		It is vital that we draw on that spirit so that we can face any challenge that Satan and his wicked system thrust upon us.
Person Wey Want Follow Jesus Need to Baptize		Baptism - A Requirement for Christians
God Use Favor Release Una		By Undeserved Kindness You Were Set Free
After, e come carry body down. no come dey vex for am and im people again. - 2 Chron.		Later, though, " Hezekiah humbled himself, " so he and his people were spared God 's indignation. - 2 Chron.
Ah, I really happy sey I dey there! " - Na 58 years George dey.		Oh, how wonderful it felt to be there! " - George, 58 years old.
And because e love us, e even die for us. ( Phil. 2: 5 - 8 ) Make we copy the kind love wey Jesus get.		By leaving heaven, " he emptied himself " in our behalf, even " to the point of death. "
And how Jesus death take be like key wey open door so that wetin God get for mind go happen?		And why is Jesus ' ransom sacrifice the key that unlocks the door for God 's purpose to be accomplished?
And make people no call una leader, because una get one Leader, Christ.		Neither be called leaders, for your Leader is one, the Christ.
Another thing wey fit make our mind come down, na when we dey draw body near brothers and sisters.		When we associate closely with our brothers and sisters, we find true friends and close companions.
Apart form that one, we go still dey pray to, and tell am everything wey dey for our mind. Prayer dey make us near well well.		Adding to this, if we pour out our hearts to in prayer, we will draw closer to him.
Apostle Peter write say Satan the Devil be like " lion wey e de shout. " Apostle John write say Satan na " snake " and " dragon. " ( 1 Pet.		The apostle Peter describes Satan the Devil as " a roaring lion, " and John calls him a " serpent " and a " dragon. "
Because we want settle the matter with peace, we send one brother wey e don serve before as missionary for that African country, make e go visit the Ambassador of that country for London.		In hopes of resolving the matter peacefully, a brother who had previously served as a missionary in that African land was assigned to visit the country 's High Commissioner in London, England.
Before we answer that important question, make we talk about two example wey Jesus use. This example show why we need to " produce fruit. " ( Matt.		To answer that important question, let us examine two of Jesus ' illustrations in which he considers the need to " bear fruit. "
But know the time and e don already put the date when this world go end.		Yet, the timing of that event has never been uncertain to.
But the truth be sey, no Governing Body member dey use social media, and dem no get their own website.		However, no member of the Governing Body maintains a personal Web page or a presence on any social media site.
But this one no mean sey the pikin go know everything for Bible before e baptize.		Even so, an exhaustive knowledge is not required before a person can make a dedication to God and get baptized.
Daniel get?		Daniel?
Dem come follow two sister go where Witness no too pleny for Cleveland wey dey Tennessee.		They moved to Cleveland, Tennessee, with two other sisters to serve where the need was greater.
Dem fit help their children know wetin dem go do about boyfriend and girlfriend matter. Dem fit talk about the matter for family worship and use the Bible verse wey dey this paragraph.		Parents might help their children to develop self - control and wisdom in regard to romantic relationships by discussing the topic during family worship, using the Bible passages just mentioned.
Dem use " bosheth " instead of " baal. " ( 2 Sam.		Elsewhere in the Bible, the name Eshbaal is presented as Ish - bosheth, " baal " being replaced with " bosheth. "
E beg David, with the mind sey David no go want do wetin go vex.		She respectfully appealed to David on the basis of his relationship with.
E come still tell other people to join am praise. - Read Psalm 147: 1, 7, 12.		He also encouraged others to join him in giving God praise. - Read Psalm 147: 1, 7, 12.
E for like to dey carry am, play with am, and dey take care of am. The truth be sey, Hannah for like to enjoy wetin mama dey enjoy when e dey take care of im pikin as e dey grow.		Think of how she longed to cuddle him, to play with him, to nurture him - to share in all the endearing memories that a loving mother cherishes as she watches her little one grow up.
E get how don take show you sey e understand everything about you?		In your case, how has the Almighty shown that " his understanding is beyond measure "?
E get some things wey fit make am hard for us to take correction sometimes. E fit be the sin wey dey our body, the way dem take train us, and other things.		However, our sinful leanings, our upbringing, and other factors make it a challenge to accept discipline or to view it in the right light.
E no dey quick vex, e dey talk true everytime, ' and im love strong well well. ( Ex.		He is " merciful and compassionate, slow to anger and abundant in loyal love and truth. "
E sey e thank sey e help am get cool temper.		And he is grateful to for helping him to cultivate a mild temper.
Even if e don tey wey we start to serve, we still need to do things wey go make our friendship with am tight. - Phil.		Even longtime servants of need to maintain their spirituality. - Phil.
For 1938, Jim Carr wey be zone servant ( wey we dey call circuit overseer now ), follow the advice wey dem give sey make pioneer house dey inside city.		Jim Carr, serving as a zone servant ( now known as a circuit overseer ) in 1938, followed the suggestion to set up pioneer homes in cities.
For 2006, my first pikin Kimberly and im husband Brian come dey stay near us dey train their two pikin, their name na name na Mackenzie and Elizabeth.		In 2006, Brian and Kimberly moved next door to us to raise their two daughters, Mackenzie and Elizabeth.
For example, e get many of our brothers and sisters wey dey prison for Eritrea, Singapore, and South Korea. Many times dem dey put dem for prison because dem no gree carry gun.		For example, many of our brothers and sisters are imprisoned in Eritrea, Singapore, and South Korea, in most cases because of acting in harmony with Jesus ' words not to take up the sword.
For that one to happen, we go continue to choose ' the thing wey good pass. ' This one mean sey, we go put work as the main thing for our life.		To avoid being distracted by secular matters and to prove our love for Christ, we must continue to choose " the good portion, " to give priority to spiritual things.
For the topic wey we study before this one, we learn different different way wey we take dey gain because of favor.		In the preceding article, we learned how we as sinners are benefiting from 's undeserved kindness in many ways.
For your former area, you fit don already dey do this things wey make you and be tight friend.		Whatever you needed spiritually in your previous location, you will need in your new one too.
How sense take pass the one wey dey this world?		How is 's wisdom far superior to that of the world under Satan 's dominion?
How we fit show sey we dey support as our King?		What are some important ways that we show support for 's sovereignty?
How we go take get the kind faith wey Noah get?		How we cultivate faith like Noah 's.
How we take dey see the faith wey all Christian get?		How should we view Christian faith?
How wetin Ezekiel talk take dey happen for the Memorial wey we dey do every year?		How is the fulfillment of Ezekiel 's prophecy in evidence each year at the Memorial?
I really like to visit brothers and sisters for congregation and encourage them.		I truly love doing shepherding work in the congregation!
I work for there for one month. Later, dem come carry me go Magazine Department because I sabi type.		After about a month in the Bindery, I was sent to the Magazine Department because I knew how to type.
If im language get Watchtower Library or Watchtower ONLINE LIBRARY, you fit show am how to use am answer question about Bible.		If the Watchtower Library or Watchtower ONLINE LIBRARY is available in his language, you can show him how to use it to answer Bible questions.
If we no dey support, we dey use our chance well?		Why is opposing God 's sovereignty a misuse of free will?
If you talk to person wey you trust about wetin dey disturb you, how that one fit help you?		How can good communication help you to cope with anxiety?
Im na Jew, and all Jew people promise to serve God.		He was born in a nation that was dedicated to God.
Instead of the person to dey vex or carry the matter for mind, make e continue to use all im mind do things wey e fit do for. Make e see the correction as something wey show sey love am.		Instead of being angry and resentful, may they continue to serve God to the best of their ability in their new situation, viewing the discipline as evidence of 's love.
don talk before sey e go save im people comot from Babylon hand; and na wetin e do be that.		He had promised that his people would be liberated, and so they were.
know wetin im people need.		knew what his people needed.
people still contribute to support the people wey dey direct work.		In other cases, 's people gave financial support to those taking the lead in the work.
Jesus talk sey: ' No think sey I carry peace come the earth. Na sword I carry come, no be peace. I come cause trouble.		Jesus said: " Do not think I came to bring peace to the earth; I came to bring, not peace, but a sword.
Jesus tell Peter, James and John make dem ' continue to dey watch, ' as e dey pray.		Jesus asked Peter, James, and John to " keep on the watch " while he prayed.
Make una take una time try know about the many things wey don make and dey read any topic for our book wey dey talk about dem.		Take an interest in creation and in articles in our publications that discuss this topic.
Many times, dem dey talk sey when dem watch the program finish, e dey make dem feel sey Governing Body member na their friend.		We often hear them say that after watching the monthly programs, they feel close to the members of the Governing Body.
Mary begin worry because e no know why the angel come.		Mary was " deeply disturbed, " uncertain why an angel was speaking to her.
Maybe dem come help your congregation because publishers no too many.		Some may come to serve where the need is greater.
My mind tell me sey I really make people know who be. "		I felt that I was really making 's name known. "
Na because Alexander the Great wey come from Greece, win many country for war that time.		Because Alexander the Great had expanded the Grecian Empire by means of his conquests.
Na that time the Catholic sisters for there come separate all of us.		Then the nuns decided to separate my sisters and me.
No, na normal thing for person to love imself and e good.		No, it is normal, even necessary, to have a healthy love of self.
Or you go remember sey fit dey give dem time to change and e go correct the problem?		Or will you recognize that may allow time for repentance on the part of wrongdoers and that he will ultimately correct the wrongs and act in a just way?
Our yeartext for 2018 na: " The people wey put their hope for go get power again. " - ISA.		Our yeartext for 2018: " Those hoping in will regain power. " - ISA.
Papa and mama, make una tell to help una, and make una do everything wey una fit do.		Parents, pray to for help, and try your best.
People Wey First Be Sister for Church Don Become Witness ( F. and A.		Pool of Bethzatha " stirred up ", May Satan physically take Jesus to temple?, Mar.
Person go plant grass for another person farm, the grass come spoil wetin dem plant for the farm.		Weeds had been sown in another person 's field, and as a result, a crop was ruined.
Remember sey elders love us and dem want make we near.		Remember, the elders love us and want us to grow spiritually.
Satan no want make you get life wey no go end.		A person who lives apart from is under Satan 's rule.
So if you dey correct your children and dey show dem good example, e go help dem fit control theirself.		Similarly, parental discipline and example have the goal of teaching children self - control.
Stuart Keltie and William Torrington wey be pioneer really show sey dem ready to go preach for the village wey far well well and wey people no too dey.		Pioneers Stuart Keltie and William Torrington demonstrated that sort of determination.
That time, they no de too train circuit overseer.		In those days, a circuit overseer received little training.
That time, we dey play the film wey be The Happiness of the New World Society almost every time for open place.		At that time, we showed the film The Happiness of the New World Society, almost always outdoors in public places.
The people wey dem send come tell Paul and Silas sey make dem sofri comot from the city.		The officials ask them to leave the city peacefully.
The sisters, their children and my Bible students sofri help me sabi the language.		The local sisters, their children, and my Bible students patiently helped me to master the language.
Think about how dem happy reach when Peter bring am back to life. This na the first time wey Jesus apostle do this kind miracle.		Imagine their joy when Peter came and raised Dorcas from the dead - the first recorded resurrection by an apostle!
This prophet first know where e suppose do reach. But wetin make am do oversabi when e follow wetin that old man talk?		Why did the once modest prophet presumptuously go along with that deceitful older man?
This one show sey no dey raise shoulder, e dey feel for person and e get open mind.		In doing so, he manifested reasonableness, humility, and compassion.
This young person still gain from another topic wey be " Alternative Life - Styles - Does God Approve? "		This young person also benefited from the article " Alternative Life - Styles - Does God Approve? "
To worship na part of our life, we no just dey do am.		Our full share in worship reveals that we love and are truly dedicated to him.
True true, na God work Paul like to do pass for life. The brothers and sisters for Rome need to follow Paul example.		Yes, Paul 's life centered on spiritual provisions and activities.
We dey keep all the letter and we dey read dem if things hard for us.		We keep these letters and read them when we are feeling low.
We dey show sey we hold tight if we dey use one mind do things with our brothers and sisters. Even though sey dem dey do mistake, still love dem.		As with other tests, allows us to prove our integrity by learning to work unitedly with dedicated men and women whom he loves despite their imperfections.
We fit don de serve for plenty years for e organization. But, even with that one, bad thing fit grow inside our heart.		Similarly, we may have served for decades in the earthly part of God 's organization.
We know sey if e still dey alive, e go tell us to put eye well well for our work.		As she would have encouraged us to do, we immersed ourselves in our new work.
We self don come see sey resurrection fit happen, even after many years wey God make the promise, and we believe am.		It should also impress us that those Bible prophecies about a coming resurrection were trustworthy, even though centuries had passed since that miracle was foretold.
Wetin Paul tell the brothers for Colossae?		What counsel did the apostle Paul write to fellow Christians?
Wetin be one thing wey e make human being better pass animal?		What is one thing that makes humans superior to animals?
Wetin for make David raise shoulder, but why e no do like that?		What could have caused David to become proud, but why did he not?
Wetin happen to one family for apostle time go fit help papa and mama today.		The experience of a family in the first century offers parents some insight.
Wetin papa and mama fit do to help pikin wey no too dey believe wetin Bible talk again?		If a young person has doubts, how can parents provide assistance?
Wetin show sey na Witness people dey preach the good news for ' everywhere for this world '?		What proves that 's have fulfilled Jesus ' prophecy with regard to the scope of the work?
Wetin we fit learn from wetin Gideon do?		What can we learn from Gideon 's modesty?
When Boaz come check people wey dey work for im farm, e see one woman wey be stranger wey dey work well well. The woman dey gather wetin people wey dey work for Boaz farm leave.		When he came to inspect his fields during the harvest, Boaz could not fail to notice a hardworking foreign woman gleaning behind his harvesters.
When Federico get problem, im friend Antonio listen to am and help am		When Federico faced a difficulty, his friend Antonio listened to him and encouraged him
Which better character people wey love God dey get?		What results come from a love of God?
Why Jesus talk sey nobody fit add join im life, even if e dey wahala imself?		Why did Jesus then say that the anxious person cannot add even a cubit to his life?
Why e good make we de follow the laws wey de give us?		Why is it worth sticking to 's standards?
Yes o! Our preaching go be like dew, wey dey cool body and wey good for life!		Yes, our message will be just like the dew, that is, gentle, refreshing, and vital to life!
E dey make us happy when we dey talk with our brothers and sisters, before meeting start and after meeting close. This na because our brothers and sisters na our friend and dem really love us. - 1 Corinthians 16: 17, 18.		And when we speak to them before and after the meetings, we feel refreshed because we have many friends who really care for us. - 1 Corinthians 16: 17, 18.
[CONTENT_REMOVED]		See paragraphs 13, 14 )
Why Abraham ask this question?		With that question, Abraham expressed confidence that would render perfect justice in the case of Sodom and Gomorrah.
The more we dey learn about the kind sense wey get, we go be like apostle Paul wey talk sey: ' God blessing many, no be small! E get deep sense and e know things well well!		As we learn of 's knowledge and wisdom, we feel as did the apostle Paul, who wrote under inspiration: " O the depth of God 's riches and wisdom and knowledge!
July 15, 2013, Watchtower talk sey, ' the slave wey get sense and wey dem fit trust ' na small group of brothers wey go rule with Jesus and na dem still be Governing Body.		The July 15, 2013, issue of The Watchtower explained that " the faithful and discreet slave " is a small group of anointed brothers who make up the Governing Body.
This people dey think sey dem fit dey sin as dem like and go always dey forgive dem.		These unfaithful Christians apparently thought that they could sin and then count on to forgive them.
Riana come pack go one place wey far well well for south of Madagascar. The place want be like desert and e far reach 800 miles ( 1,300 km ) from im former place.		He moved to the southernmost part of the country - a drought - stricken region 800 miles ( 1,300 km ) from where he had been living.
After, e come follow make other things for heaven and earth.		Initially, he was alone with.
Why people for Galilee want make Jesus king?		Why did the people of Galilee want Jesus to be their king?
Why e good make husband and wife know how the other person dey feel and wetin e need?		Why do marriage mates need to show tenderness?
Something fit happen wey no make us happy but we fit still get joy.		In fact, a person can be disturbed about something but still have joy in his heart.
Wetin fit make you get mind to preach for open place?		How might you become more confident in public witnessing?
If you don do wetin bad well well, ready to help you be im friend again.		If you have sinned seriously, is ready to help you recover.
Name for Bible Wey Dey One Olden Days Pot		A Bible Name on an Ancient Jar
Make we remember wetin God tell Israel people. E tell dem sey im strong ' hand no too short to save ' people wey dey serve am well.		We can take to heart what God told the Israelites, that his mighty ' hand is not too short to save ' his loyal servants.
After Moses die use Joshua lead Israel people. Bible tell us sey God use one angel help Joshua to fit carry Israel people go fight and win Canaan people for war. ( Josh.		After Moses ' time, his successor, Joshua, was strengthened by " the prince of 's army " to lead God 's people into battle against the Canaanites; and the Israelites won the victory.
All this things fit make person start to dey rub im private part to dey sweet am. - Col.		It also applies to unclean activities practiced by an individual in private, such as reading sexually stimulating books or viewing pornography, which may lead to the unclean habit of masturbation. - Col.
Apart from things wey we dey do to show sey we love, we fit still use our mind contribute wetin we get.		In addition to our labors of love, we can honor God by way of our voluntary contributions.
Apostle Peter na another example for Bible.		Another Bible example is that of the apostle Peter.
Because Jehoshaphat trust e come still talk sey: ' Na you we dey look. ' - 2 Chron.		He fully relied on, saying: " Our eyes are toward you. " - 2 Chron.
Because Jesus talk wetin happen that time. E talk say: " That time before the heavy rain fall, people de chop and drink, men de marry, and them de give their women out for marriage, until that day wey Noah enter the ark, and they no even notice - am until the heavy rain come and destroy all of them. Na so e go still happen when the Son of man go dey around. "		Note what Jesus stated: " For as they were in those days before the Flood, eating and drinking, men marrying and women being given in marriage, until the day that Noah entered into the ark, and they took no note until the Flood came and swept them all away, so the presence of the Son of man will be. "
Because of wetin fit happen, the brothers beg Paul make e no go.		Fearing the worst, the brothers begged Paul not to go.
Bible talk sey: ' But if the one wey no dey serve God sey e want stay im own, make e stay im own; that kind condition no tie the brother or sister, but God don call una enter peace. '		The Bible says: " If the unbelieving one chooses to depart, let him depart; a brother or a sister is not bound under such circumstances, but God has called you to peace. "
Bible talk sey Timothy " come really believe " wetin e learn.		Timothy was also " persuaded to believe. "
Breath well go inside		Take a deep breath
Brothers fit come give talk for our congregation. Dem fit be circuit overseer, brothers from other congregation, or even brothers from Bethel. This one na better chance to do good.		Visits of public speakers from other congregations, as well as visits of circuit overseers and, at times, representatives from the local branch office, provide opportunities for us to extend hospitality.
But as you continue, your faith come dey strong.		As our faith grew, though, we saw the need to be open about our beliefs.
But get am for mind sey, know. And go do wetin we no even put mind sey e go do. - Read 2 Peter 2: 9.		So although from a human viewpoint we may not see a way out of our problems, does, and he can do the unexpected. - Read 2 Peter 2: 9.
But if I fit go Kingdom Hall, I dey enjoy all the better better things wey don arrange for us.		But once I 'm there, I can enjoy the wonderful spiritual meal that has prepared.
But wetin go help us fit enjoy Bible reading pass as we dey do now?		How can we get the most out of our personal Bible reading?
Check 1988 Yearbook of 's, pp.		See the 1988 Yearbook of 's, pp.
E clear say this fruit go be something wey any Christian fit do.		Clearly, the fruit must refer to an activity that each of us is able to carry out.
E fit be sey na this one make dem never fit form synagogue. The people for Philippi dey happy sey dem get the right wey Rome people get.		The people of Philippi are obviously very proud of their Roman citizenship, even if it is only a partial or secondary form of citizenship.
E get one day wey one police catch us as we dey study together. E come seize our magazine and dem call us go the second oga office.		One day while we were secretly studying, a prison guard stumbled on our gathering and confiscated our literature.
E go still help us make we continue to preach the good news. ( 1 Pet.		We understand that wants us to respect governmental authorities.
E just dey like say e open door for us make we join the family of God.		He opened the door, as it were, so that we could become part of God 's family.
E still get another thing wey make us fit talk sey na suppose rule us.		is the rightful Sovereign for yet another reason.
Even though we dey last days and Satan dey rule this wicked world, still dey bless im people.		Even in these dark last days of Satan 's wicked system of things, is blessing his people.
Even when the missionaries come back from the international assembly, I still continue to serve for Bethel.		Even after the missionaries returned from the international assembly, I continued to serve at Bethel.
First dey do things wey get value.		Set appropriate priorities.
For example, e get one time wey Rome government want know how many people dey where dem dey rule.		s servants in the past set the pattern in their relationship with governments and officials.
For inside this 4,000 people, na 288 people ' dem train to dey sing to. And dem sabi am well well. ' - 1 Chron.		Among these, 288 were " trained in song to, all experts. " - 1 Chron.
For where, e no dey! PEACE: Love dey make us ' bear wetin people do ' us.		Where else but among God 's people can such love be found?
Hans come start to study Bible.		In time, his mother arranged for an elder to contact her son in prison, and Hans began to study the Bible.
How the city wey arrange fit help us know the kind person wey e be?		How can the arrangement of the cities of refuge help us to understand better?
How the meaning of God name fit make your faith strong?		How can the meaning of God 's name strengthen your faith?
How this example take concern our preaching work?		How does that aspect of the illustration apply to our ministry?
I come dey work with one machine wey dem dey use for there. The machine wey I dey use dey arrange book wey get 32 page so that another machine go fit sew am.		I was soon working on a gathering machine, which assembled 32 - page sections of books to get them ready for a machine that sewed the books.
If you dey do all this things, e go help you dey sure well well sey na your Friend.		Applying yourself in those aspects will boost your confidence in your privilege of having a friendship with.
Jacob get better gain, e come be God friend and God bless am. Na this kind gain we self dey find today, no be so?		Jacob gained the rich reward that we too are seeking - 's approval and blessing.
dey happy if you use your mind support im work?		that your displaying a volunteer spirit matters to?
dey use im organization train me. "		was training me through his organization. "
Later, e come go area where publisher no too dey to help dem. The name of the place wey e go na Massachusetts.		A few months later, she moved to Massachusetts to serve where the need for Kingdom publishers was greater.
Make we come talk about how help some of im servant for Bible. We go see how this one take make their mind come down.		Let us now consider how some servants of God have felt - and benefited from - the comfort that provides.
Make we continue to show sey we get faith sey wetin promise go happen.		We should keep exercising our faith in 's promises.
Make we dey do like dem.		How might you imitate their good example?
Many people dey think like that.		Many hold this view.
Matthew 16: 17, 18 no talk sey na apostle Peter go be the head for congregation.		Matthew 16: 17, 18 does not say that the apostle Peter would be head of the Christian congregation.
Mek we no come dey carry our country for head, dey think sey our country better pass other people own.		We should never be so proud of our country or nation that we think it is better than any other.
Mek we ready ourself now so that we no go join for politics and war matter even when e no easy		Prepare now to stay neutral even in a difficult situation
Na 1990 Lauri die, and e serve till e die.		Lauri died in 1990, and she too stayed faithful to.
Na still get other better things wey dey make human being, plant, and animal dey alive. ( Ps. 104: 13 - 15; Hag.		The Bible contains numerous accounts of how used his resources miraculously to provide for his people.
Na around 12 old people de meet for there.		About 12 elderly met there for worship.
Na human being dem dey look to end their problem.		Millions have turned their backs on him and look to human institutions to solve mankind 's problems.
Na im make us dey pray make God Kingdom come.		So we pray for God 's Kingdom to come.
Na so because the way we de think no fit protect us reach the advice wey de give us.		Our judgment is just too flawed to offer us the protection that we need.
Na so e go still be if the work wey person dey do to get money, dey make am carry gun.		The same applies to a Christian who continues to carry a firearm as part of his secular work.
Na something wey you go learn by yourself. '		It 's something you have to find out for yourself. "
Na two months dem plan to stay but Hans talk sey: " We really like the congregation wey we join for Ghana, that one come make us stay pass as we plan. "		We enjoyed working with the congregation so much, " says Hans, " that we extended our stay. "
No be face dey look but na wetin dey person mind, who the person really be.		When observes humans, he does not pay attention to outward appearances. Rather, he examines the heart, the inner person.
No forget sey e no tey after help Hezekiah win Sennacherib and cure im sickness na im Hezekiah begin dey raise shoulder.		Remember that Hezekiah 's haughtiness became obvious soon after defeated Sennacherib and cured Hezekiah 's deadly sickness.
No let people mind comot from Bible because of too much story, example, or the way you dey give the talk		Do not let experiences, illustrations, or your delivery overshadow the Bible
One thing be sey, if we dey carry body down, we go remember sey we fit no know everything about some matter.		First, humility will move us to acknowledge that we do not have all the facts.
One woman tell me sey, small time, people no go dey die again.		A woman told me that soon people will no longer die.
Our yeartext for 2017 na: ' Trust and Do Wetin Good ' - Psalm 37: 3		Our yeartext for 2017: " Trust in and do what is good. " - Psalm 37: 3
Paul write letter give the congregation wey dey Corinth sey: ' I dey send Timothy come meet una, because na my pikin wey I love and wey dey follow wetin the Lord talk.		Paul had written to the Corinthians: " I am sending Timothy to you, because he is my beloved and faithful child in the Lord.
People fit no agree with wetin we believe. So we must learn how to use Bible well when we de talk with them.		But we must learn to use it skillfully when defending our beliefs - or when adjusting our own thinking.
People wey they get different skin color de treat each other anyhow. I no know say they go first remove the problem from people their heart.		I did not realize that the causes of racial injustice had to be uprooted from people 's hearts.
Psalm 119: 21 talk about sey: ' You no dey hide how you dey vex reach for people wey dey overdo things. '		Psalm 119: 21 says of: " You rebuke the presumptuous. "
Satan don talk sey no get right to be King. So, dey like am if we use our mind and all our power take show sey na im really be our King.		Satan has challenged the rightfulness of 's sovereignty, so our voluntary and vigorous efforts to uphold it are undoubtedly of special value to our benevolent and appreciative heavenly Father.
Since dem go disfellowship the person, e show sey the ' sin ' wey Jesus dey talk no be about small quarrel.		The seriousness of this step indicates that the " sin " was not a small disagreement.
So, dey study Bible and dey think about wetin you learn, because this things dey among wetin go help you get life wey no go end. - Read Psalm 119: 105.		Study and meditation play an important role in working out your own salvation. - Read Psalm 119: 105.
So I come go.		So I went.
Some of dem no dey support for congregation at all, but dem dey put mouth for wetin no concern dem.		Some individuals were ' not working at all but were meddling with what did not concern them. '
Some people dey quick learn and change their life, but other people fit dey slow.		Each student grows and matures at a different rate.
Some people dey talk sey: " Wetin bad if I sleep with person wey no be my husband or wife? "		Why condemn sex outside marriage?
That time, Bible cost well well because na hand people take dey write am.		Why not? For one thing, most could not afford to own a Bible, as copies were handwritten and very expensive to produce.
The first day wey we go preach, one woman listen to us well. I come read Revelation 21: 3, 4. As I read am finish, I come faint!		On our first day in the field ministry, one lady listened attentively, so I read Revelation 21: 3, 4 - and then I fainted!
The one wey sweet me pass be sey, I don near well well. ' - Read Matthew 5: 3, 6.		And most important, I now feel closer to. " - Read Matthew 5: 3, 6.
The second thing wey go help us na to dey think about the love wey get for us.		Second, meditating on 's love will help us to cultivate modesty.
Today, we don see sey stars many pass as we know before.		Over the years, the number of stars that we can see has increased tremendously.
True - true, Amos get plenty blessing from this work. ( Amos 7: 14, 15, ftn. )		God appointed Amos to be a prophet, certainly a spiritually rich assignment.
Wetin fit pain pass any correction wey dem give person?		What is worse than any pain that may result from discipline?
Wetin go dey the woman mind pass, na to take care of the pikin.		More adjustments become necessary when the baby arrives.
Wetin we go dey do to show sey we no join for politics?		How do we show that we do not take sides in the world 's politics?
Wetin we go do to show sey we really know sey ' our God na one '?		How can we demonstrate that we understand that " our God is one "?
What of Local Design / Construction, you fit join do the work part - time, even if na to build Kingdom Hall?		Could you become a Local Design / Construction volunteer, working part - time on Kingdom Hall projects?
Which better example Joseph show us?		What good example did Joseph set?
Why gree make Israel people go fight war?		Why did approve of the wars of ancient Israel?
You dey join hand dey make congregation one?		Are you contributing to the oneness of the Christian congregation?
You no go dey happy say the doctor help you? Na so e still be with the laws wey God don give us.		You probably would greatly appreciate your doctor for helping you to improve the quality of your life.
You stop, the person stop; you waka fast, the person waka fast.		When you stop, the footsteps behind you also stop.
From the surplus wey im get, all of us don get favor wey no dey end. " - JOHN 1: 16.		We all received. undeserved kindness upon undeserved kindness. " - JOHN 1: 16.
As God people, we know sey to dress no be just to wear anything wey we like or wey good for our eye.		As God 's ministers, therefore, we understand that our getting dressed is not just a matter of putting on something comfortable that we like.
But e no tey after dem make am king, e come dey do things wey e no suppose do.		But soon after he became king, he carried out a series of presumptuous acts.
We go beg for prayer make e touch the heart of people wey they want learn the truth.		Second, we supplicate in prayer to open the heart of sincere ones.
But no forget sey na Jesus Christ appear to Paul wey make am become Christian.		But we should not forget that he became a Christian by a miraculous display from Jesus.
And e pass 1,500 years wey take dey patient with Israel people even though sey dem get strong head. - Ezek.		Also, for over 1,500 years, put up with the wayward nation of Israel. - Ezek.
Wetin we go talk about for the next topic?		What aspect of the ransom will we consider next?
want make people from all the country and language come serve am. Dem go be ' great crowd ' wey nobody fit count.		It is God 's will that a numberless " great crowd " from all nations and tribes and tongues become his worshippers.
Wetin elders fit do to train brothers wey go be overseer for congregation?		How can the elders effectively train future shepherds of the congregation?
E still good make you pray to make e help you do the things wey you dey learn.		Do you prayerfully meditate on how you can apply in your life what you are studying?
Dem go fit talk wetin go help you continue to serve and wetin go help you no too worry. - Rom.		Such " an interchange of encouragement " will help to replenish your spiritual resources and make it easier for you to deal with any anxiety. - Rom.
You go gain plenty things if you make friend with people wey love. Their better example fit help you learn how to dey control yourself.		Spiritually - minded associates will have a positive influence on you, moving you to imitate their course of life marked by self - control.
The talk show sey na our hand e dey to teach people the message wey dey Bible, wey fit save their life.		It stressed the responsibility to make known the Bible 's lifesaving message.
So wetin go better pass for everybody wey the matter concern, na to carry body down. - Read 1 Peter 5: 5.		Certainly, a humble response is in the best spiritual interests of all concerned. - Read 1 Peter 5: 5.
About one year before that time, our district overseer, James A.		A year or so earlier, the district overseer, James A.
After three month, the elder come sey make Jim follow am go meeting.		After about three months, the elder invited Jim to a Christian meeting.
And e go help you and them make wuna light de shine.		You will find this very upbuilding, and both you and they will be even more motivated to let the light of truth shine.
And na wetin many pioneer do be that.		And that is what many pioneers did.
And true true, God bless am because e no tire to fight.		And he was, indeed, rewarded for his perseverance.
Another thing be sey, go still dey use Bible, holy spirit and im organization dey mold us. And one day one day we go be ' God pikin ' wey no get sin again. - Rom.		What is more, will continue to mold us by means of his Word, spirit, and organization so that one day we will be able to stand before him as perfect " children of God. " - Rom.
Another thing wey go help us control ourself na Bible study. Make we dey settle down study Bible everytime.		Diligent and conscientious Bible study can help Christians to develop self - control.
Anytime e see Witness people, from that time, e no dey hide again.		From then on, he no longer hid from 's.
Anytime we dey face serious problem, we dey read wetin promise for Isaiah 41: 10. That place talk sey: " No fear because I dey with you.		Whenever we encountered a trying problem, we read 's promise at Isaiah 41: 10: " Do not be afraid, for I am with you.
As time dey go, five people from their class come be Witness.		Eventually, five from their class became 's.
Because my papa and mama like the way e dey explain Bible, dem come dey go Bible Students meeting for our village.		Impressed by John 's sound Scriptural reasoning, they began attending meetings of the Bible Students in our village.
Because of sickness, one husband and wife for Poland wey no fit comot go preach, start to preach with letter.		Because of health problems, a married couple in Poland began to witness by letter.
Because that time Philistia people want fight Israel people, and many Israel people don leave Saul.		The Philistines were preparing for battle, and the Israelites were deserting Saul.
But because dem love and want do more for am, dem stop this kind work.		Love of God has moved some to give up potentially lucrative careers to serve more fully.
But wetin Jesus tell Christians for Thyatira show sey e go better to talk about one good thing wey dem do.		General words of encouragement and commendation are helpful, but Jesus ' message to Christians in Thyatira shows that being specific is better.
But wetin dey make am hard for some people to do good?		But you may wonder, ' Why would anyone hold back? '
But when Peter use this word, na brothers and sisters e get for mind, no be stranger. E sey make dem dey help each other, even though sey dem already know theirself.		Note, however, that Peter urged his Christian brothers and sisters to be hospitable " to one another, " to those whom they already knew and associated with.
Daniel remember how e be that time, e talk sey: ' Water dey our eye as we see sey we go need to go back to Spain.		Daniel recalls: " With tears in our eyes, we began thinking about our return to Spain.
Dem get wetin dem go talk about because dem use their eye see ' the good things wey do. ' ( Judg.		They had something of substance to speak about as " they were recounting the righteous acts of. "
Dem pretend to be serious people wey dey come meeting, and dem put body for preaching.		They appeared to be zealous and were active in the ministry.
E baptize for 1914 when e dey 17 years.		He was baptized in 1914 at 17 years of age.
E first happen for 1919 when God sofri start to dey arrange im people again and make dem get one mind.		Initially, the prophecy began to be fulfilled in 1919 when God 's people were gradually reorganized and reunited.
E fit be sey Christians for Ephesus dey do like people for the world wey dey think about wetin go favor only dem. ( Eph.		These early disciples of Christ may have been influenced by the fleshly - minded world.
E go protect you from lie lie story wey fit scatter your faith. - Read Proverbs 2: 10 - 12.		It will protect you from secular philosophies that could destroy your faith. - Read Proverbs 2: 10 - 12.
E no easy for dem, but dem do everything wey dem fit do so that dem go dey do their meeting.		Although it was not easy, they did all they could to continue meeting together.
E talk say: " I know say na only the Kingdom of God go remove all our problem. "		I know that the only hope for solving all our problems is God 's Kingdom, " she says.
Eddie don dey enjoy to preach for open place.		Now Eddie looks forward to public witnessing.
FOR the year 607 B.C.E., King Nebuchadnezzar II and im plenty soldier come fight war with people for Jerusalem.		IN 607 B.C.E., a massive Babylonian army under the command of King Nebuchadnezzar II invaded the city of Jerusalem.
For example, Steffen wey come from Denmark, talk sey: " Na everyday I dey preach to people wey never hear about before.		Steffen, who is from Denmark, said: " Every day, I was able to preach to people who had never heard about.
For person wey dey serve which promise big pass, and wetin this promise really mean?		What is the most important vow that a Christian can make, and what does it entail?
For us to get the freedom wey dey give, and enjoy am, we must be im tight friend.		To enjoy and benefit from that freedom, however, we must ' turn to, ' that is, come into a personal relationship with him.
Gavin get all the answer to im question because e gree study Bible. This one na blessing for am.		A Bible study was a blessing for Gavin because it helped him find answers to all his questions.
How take dey make our mind come down?		How can we be consoled by?
How e feel when e read am finish?		What was his reaction?
How papa and mama fit show their children better example?		How important is parental example in training children?
I don understand wetin dey James 4: 8 pass before. That place talk sey: ' Make una come near God and im go near una. '		Now I understood better what James 4: 8 means: ' Draw close to God, and he will draw close to you. '
If we no sabi the language wey people for our new congregation dey use, e go hard us to understand the truth wey dey Bible for that language. And that one na big problem.		The inability to grasp God 's Word in a foreign language can pose a real threat to our spiritual health.
If you be papa or mama, wetin you fit do to help your children get mind to baptize?		Parents, how can you help your children reach out for the goal of baptism?
Im pikin self come talk sey: ' Do wetin you promise. ' ( Judg.		And his daughter replied: " Do to me as you have promised. "
Instead, let Job understand sey, na small pikin e be to am.		Rather, wanted to help Job recognize his insignificance in comparison with God 's greatness.
bless their preaching work, and before you know, dem don start one congregation.		With 's blessing and their zealous work, a congregation was started.
don promise before sey e go stop the bad things wey dey happen. So Noah need to trust sey e go do wetin e promise, when the time reach. - Gen.		Noah had to trust that would keep His promise to end wickedness, believing that God would do so at just the right time. - Gen.
later answer Rachel prayer, and e born.		heard Rachel 's heartfelt supplications, and she was eventually blessed with children.
Jesus talk sey people wey want be im disciple go dey do this preaching work.		Jesus said that this work would be carried out by his true disciples.
Later when their oga come, the police tell am the better thing wey my wife do for dem.		Later, when the KGB chief arrived, the officers told him about the kind treatment they had received.
Life go really sweet when everybody wey ' know the Son and wey dey show sey dem get faith, ' go get life wey no go end.		Imagine what life will be like when everyone " who recognizes the Son and exercises faith " will have everlasting life.
Make we no forget sey the elder na person like us wey get sin for body.		The model to follow and imitate is Christ.
Most of the work wey we do, na three dollars them de pay us for one day.		Most of our jobs paid three dollars a day.
My mama study sotey e come baptize for 1957.		She made steady spiritual progress and was baptized in 1957.
Na dey help us do many things wey we no fit do by ourself.		Many things we can do only with 's help.
Na im make any Christian wey really dey do wetin God like, no go get gun to protect imself from other people.		Out of regard for those principles, spiritually mature Christians choose not to keep a firearm for protection against other humans.
Na only am be the true God; no other god be like am. ( 2 Sam.		There is no real or true God but him; no other god is like him.
No be im real name be that.		Some names have been changed.
OUR work to preach no be wetin person dey take play.		OUR ministry is important and valuable.
Our children like to dey cram Bible verse.		And our children loved memorizing Scripture texts.
Papa, mama and their children go gain if dem dey do things with brothers and sisters for congregation ( Check paragraph 18, 19 )		Both children and parents benefit from association with the congregation ( See paragraphs 18, 19 )
Paul don face many serious wahala. Even with that one, e show sey e get ' the peace wey God dey give. '		Paul had experienced extreme difficulties; yet, he demonstrated that he had " the peace of God. "
Psalm 147 tell God people many times sey make dem dey praise.		Psalm 147 repeatedly encourages God 's people to praise.
Sin dey cause pain, e dey make life tire person, e dey cause suffer suffer, and later death go follow. ( Rom.		In that sense we are slaves of sin, and the outcome is frustration, pain, suffering, and finally death.
So, why you no want leave me? '		Why do you care? "
So I accept Bible study.		I agreed to a Bible study.
So when I help the brothers arrange meeting and preaching well, e dey make dem happy. Later, dem come carry me go another circuit.		So the brothers appreciated it when I helped them organize meetings and field service more efficiently.
Solomon go get the mind to build the temple?		Would he have the courage to take on the task of building the temple?
Some people talk sey, if something happen to person, as time dey go, e no go too dey feel am again.		Perhaps you have heard it said that time is a great healer.
Sometimes, na person body e mean. ( Rom. 2: 28; 1 Cor.		At times, it applies to the actual flesh of our physical body.
THINK am sey you want talk about some Bible verse wey we sabi and wey we dey use well well.		IMAGINE you wanted to list Bible verses that 's know well and use often.
The container get round cover wey dem use lead make.		This medium - sized container has a " round lid of lead. "
The judge wey judge the matter talk sey the wahala wey the brothers cause pass wetin one group of Germany soldiers fit do.		When passing sentence, the judge in the case declared: " The religious propaganda in which these men are engaged is more harmful than a division of German soldiers.
The matter come enter court wey come make dem carry am go Rome.		That began a legal process that finally led him to Rome.
They born me when my papa dey 56 years and my mama dey 35 years.		My father was 56 years old when I was born; my mother was 35.
This one go help dem know the small small word ( wey dem dey call prefix and suffix ) wey dem add join the main word.		To that end, he printed the root in solid letters but the prefixes or suffixes in outline form.
We dey go because we want worship.		Primarily, we attend to worship.
We don see three things wey all of us fit do so that we fit remain as one. ( 1 ) We believe say na the Kingdom of God go fit stop all the partial for this world, ( 2 ) we no de ever support any side for politics, and ( 3 ) we no de fight or cause trouble.		We have seen that we can promote Christian unity in three ways: ( 1 ) We put our trust in God 's heavenly Kingdom to correct injustice, ( 2 ) we refuse to take sides in political issues, and ( 3 ) we reject violence.
Wetin Martha believe sey go happen to im brother?		What was Martha confident about regarding her brother?
Wetin people wey dey serve God dey use song do?		What role does singing play in true worship?
When apostle Paul dey think about how take dey help am, e come dey love more more.		Like the psalmist, Paul found strength in reflecting on 's constant support.
When dem release Arthur Matthews, e come join im brother dey pioneer. Their papa teach dem about from small pikin.		They had been taught about from infancy by their father and got baptized as teenagers.
When we hear sey people wey we help before continue to serve well, we dey happy well well. Na so apostle John happy when e talk sey: " Wetin dey make me happy pass na, when I hear sey my children dey follow the truth. "		News of faithfulness on the part of those we have helped in the past can be a real source of encouragement, as it was for the apostle John, who wrote: " No greater joy do I have than this: that I should hear that my children go on walking in the truth. "
When you pray, make you ' dey thank for everything ' wey e don do for you.		Pray to him " with thanksgiving, " remembering your blessings.
When you still dey school, you fit learn how to preach to people. Show people sey you love dem.		During your school years, you can acquire experience and skill as a preacher of the good news.
Which four things we go talk about wey God Kingdom go comot?		We will discuss what four categories that will be gone when God 's Kingdom comes?
Why God vex for Saul wey first be better person?		Why was a once modest man rejected by God?
You believe sey today dey use im ' strong power ' and ' strong hand ' help im servant?		Do you believe that uses his " great power " and " mighty hand " to strengthen his servants today?
You think sey for paradise, Abraham go talk sey all the time wey e take wait na waste of time?		No doubt, he will feel that the long wait was worth it.
Young people, make una know sey all this things wey una dey do no be waste.		Adolescents can be sure that their hard work is not in vain.
Na only the Father get power to choose when the time and season go be.		There are details about " the times or seasons that the Father has placed in his own jurisdiction. "
Why e good make young men for congregation behave well as dem dey help the old brothers, and why e good to learn from dem?		Second, why is it important that younger ones keep the right attitude as they assist brothers who are more experienced and learn from them?
[CONTENT_REMOVED]		See the box " Steps You Can Take to Progress Spiritually. " )
Jesus know sey Devil go block people mind. E dey do am to comot their mind from the things wey God don promise sey e go soon do. ( Zeph.		Jesus knew that the Devil would keep people in darkness mentally in order to undermine the sense of urgency that permeates God 's prophecies about the future.
So, this example really show say the grapes na the fruit wey disciples of Christ de produce as them de preach the good news about the Kingdom.		Thus, the grapes fittingly illustrate the Kingdom fruitage that is produced by Christ 's followers.
Apart from the life wey give us, e dey show us sey e love us.		gives us far more than just the gift of life. He gives us his love.
Wetin want make papa and mama do?		What does require of parents?
How we go take show sey we dey support Governing Body and Jesus for preaching work?		How does our preaching support the faithful slave and Jesus?
How young people fit do like Moses?		How can young ones imitate Moses ' example?
Which four things we go talk about?		What four points will we now examine?
But many times, wetin better pass na to ' cry with people wey dey cry. ' ( Rom.		Often, though, the most helpful thing you can do is to " weep with those who weep. "
Make sure sey the thing wey you value pass na things wey dey important for God eye.		Make God 's priorities your priorities.
Wetin Joseph talk wey show sey e want do something about im condition?		How did Joseph 's words to the cupbearer show that he did not passively accept the injustices he suffered?
Col. 4: 11 ) Na wetin we talk and do to help our brothers and sisters go show whether we really love dem. - Gal.		We give proof that we truly love our brothers when we show by words and deeds that we have deep concern for " those related to us in the faith. " - Gal.
Israel people for Bible promise to serve. So any pikin wey dem born don already dey among people. But no be so e be for us today.		Unlike children in the ancient nation of Israel, the children of Christian parents are not born as part of a people dedicated to.
That one mean sey Jesus go arrange the ' new earth ' well.		So the " new earth " will be organized.
Na true sey dem make mistake because of the sin wey dey their body.		Both kings were imperfect and made mistakes.
Story About People Life - I Leave Many Things So That I Go Follow the Master		Life Story - Leaving Things Behind to Follow the Master
I Know Sey E Go Come Back to Life "		I Know He Will Rise "
So, make we no ever stop to get love!		So may we never allow our love to grow cold!
The meaning of God name make us dey sure sey God no dey fail to do wetin e get for mind for im servant.		The profound meaning of the divine name assures us that God is fully capable of seeing to it that his purposes in behalf of his servants are carried out.
Make we learn why see Noah, Daniel, and Job as better example of people wey do wetin good.		So let us consider why used those men as examples of righteousness.
After Nadia and im husband talk with their mama doctor, dem come tell am make e come live with dem for Madagascar.		After the couple had consulted Marie - Madeleine 's doctor, they asked their mother to come and live with them in Madagascar.
All this question make sense.		Excellent questions these.
And before I tell anything when I dey pray, e dey do me like sey make I first tell am sorry for wetin I do. "		And when I prayed to, I felt that I had to preface everything with an apology for what I had done. "
And e go help you know how to pity for people and judge matter well like am. ( Matt.		You elders are Jesus ' undershepherds, and he will help you to judge as he judges.
And many times because of how this world be, nobody dey punish dem for wetin dem do. ( Job 21: 7, 9 ) But make we no forget wetin Bible talk.		Many have learned to hide what they do, and in this world they often seem to escape justice and consequences.
As im workmate see sey Chris dey try to change, imself come still try to change.		Noting Chris ' effort to change, the workmate also made adjustments.
But, e come like enjoyment sotey e stop to come meeting.		But his fascination with entertainment was so strong that he stopped associating with 's people.
But I face one problem.		But I faced a particular challenge.
But for the new world wey dey come, we no go talk sey na good people plenty or small pass because na only dem go remain.		But in the new world to come, the meek and the righteous will be neither a minority nor a majority; they will be the only people alive.
But na the faith wey dem get sey God fit save dem, na im make dem fit ' close lion mouth ' and ' off fire wey dey burn well well. ' - Heb.		Instead, their faith in God 's power enabled them, so to speak, to ' stop the mouths of lions ' and ' quench the force of fire. ' - Heb.
Dem really need to think about the chance wey dem trowey, wey dem for use support work.		Yes, they needed to meditate on their missed opportunity to help 's cause.
Dem tell us sey small time after we start to study the book What Does the Bible Really Teach?		It has been recommended that soon after establishing a personal study with someone in the book What Does the Bible Really Teach?
E dey good make Christians for Rome that time think about wetin dem dey always put for mind.		It was fitting for Christians in Rome to analyze what their focus in life really was.
E fit be sey dem learn about God as dem dey listen to people wey dey before dem, direct message from God, or wetin dem read from old old book wey dem see.		They likely learned about God by listening to faithful older ones, from receiving divine revelations, or from reading reliable ancient documents.
E fit be sey na im grandpapa wey be King Manasseh teach am sey dey pity person.		Repentant King Manasseh may have taught Josiah about God 's mercy.
E get some people wey serve for Bible time, wey feel sey dem no fit bear their problem again. ( 1 Ki.		The Bible reveals that faithful servants in the past often felt that they could not go on.
E get sometimes wey apostle Paul no happy for the bad things wey e don do before.		There were evidently times when the apostle Paul was distressed over past misdeeds.
E must ready to sey bye bye to things wey fit make am do bad even though sey e like those things.		He must be prepared to give up even what is dear to him if it would put him in danger of falling into sin.
E sey: " For some months, I dey tell my papa and mama sey I want baptize, and dem dey always talk to me about am.		FOR months I kept telling Dad and Mom that I wanted to be baptized, and they often talked to me about it.
E tell me sey make I dey go, and dem no ever call me again. "		He just let me go and never called me in again. "
E think sey no see am?		Did he think that he could hide it from God?
Elders and other people fit copy Timothy example. - w18.04, pp.		Both elders and others can imitate his example. - w18.04, pp.
Even though say the different - different branch wey Jesus talk about na people wey they go rule with Jesus for heaven, the lesson still concern all servant of.		Although the branches in this illustration refer to those who are in line to receive heavenly life, the illustration contains lessons that benefit all of God 's servants.
For 1976, e pain me reach bone when Brother Knorr come dey sick.		It was very sad to see Brother Knorr suffer from cancer in 1976.
For example, Bible talk say make we no de lie, de cheat, de thief, de put hand for sex matter wey God hate, de fight, and de put hand for things about demons.		Think about how we benefit from following the Bible 's laws about lying, scheming, stealing, sexual immorality, violence, and spiritism.
For example, John tell us wetin Jesus talk when e sey na love go make people know who really be im disciple. Na only John write this thing wey Jesus talk. - Read John 13: 34, 35.		His Gospel alone preserves Jesus ' statement that love is the identifying mark of his true disciples. - Read John 13: 34, 35.
For example, doctor wey dey do operation dey fit do im work well because the way human being body be no dey change.		For instance, surgeons count on the fact that the human anatomy is basically consistent.
For example, one man wey dey act film and wey be politician talk sey: ' Which one be, " Make person know where e suppose do reach? " That one no concern me at all, and I feel sey e no go ever concern me. '		For example, a well - known movie star, turned politician, once said: " Modesty is not a word that applies to me in any way - I hope it never will. "
For the topic, dem still write sey make all anointed brothers " go dey preach, dey tell people sey the kingdom wey dey heaven go soon come. "		That article urged all anointed Christians to " give a testimony to the world that the kingdom of heaven is at hand. "
How preaching work take dey help you?		How does the disciple - making work provide a fine education?
How you go take do things wey go save you?		How can you work out your own salvation?
I don win the world. ' - John 16: 33.		I have conquered the world. " - John 16: 33.
I remember one time wey we dey petrol station de put fuel for our car, I ask one man for the station if Gloria fit use their toilet.		After filling up the tank of our car, I asked the attendant if Gloria could use the restroom.
If na so, Paul example go fit help you.		If so, the example of Paul can help you.
If to sey dem know wetin want, dem for fit choose wetin good.		Acting in accord with accurate knowledge would have helped them to make wise decisions.
If we don dey old, make we no let jealousy enter our mind.		As older ones, we must guard against jealousy.
Instead, e continue to worship. E no allow wetin dem talk make am stop to pray.		But he refused to let a royal edict override his Scriptural obligations.
Instead make the problem dey make dem fear or worry, God make their mind come down and e give dem peace wey pass anything wey person fit think of.		In place of anxiety, a distressing sense of foreboding, God helped them to gain a profound sense of peace and tranquillity that actually surpassed human understanding.
Jean - David wey come from France, write sey: " We fit stay one street dey preach, and we dey tey for there.		Jean - David from France wrote: " We preached on just one street for hours.
Witness radio station wey be WBBR dey the farm for Staten Island.		The farm on Staten Island included the radio station WBBR.
like make we dey work, and when we work we dey gain better thing.		Industriousness is a godly quality, and hard work is rewarding.
people for the whole world don really see sey dey bless dem with many better things.		s servants around the world can testify to the wonderful rewards they receive from him.
Jesus already know sey im disciples go run leave am and na wetin happen be that.		Jesus knew that he would be facing his final test alone.
Jesus and im apostles sing song after e show dem how to remember im death. Na that day special pass for all the days wey people dey remember for this world. - Read Matthew 26: 30.		On the most important night in human history, Jesus included the singing of songs after the institution of the Lord 's Evening Meal. - Read Matthew 26: 30.
Jesus apostles show sey dem get strong mind.		Jesus ' faithful apostles set a fine example of courage.
Jesus show young people better example.		Jesus Christ set the perfect example for you young ones.
Job don suffer many things. So e fit make person dey think sey, the way talk to am no good.		Was harsh in giving such straightforward counsel after Job had endured so severe a trial?
Many people like to near am because of im better character.		Many are drawn to his warm and pleasant personality.
Many young people dey worry about wetin dem go use their life do.		One important decision young ones must make involves their goals.
Me and my wife do circuit work together for almost four years. Dem come invite us come Bethel.		After almost four years in the traveling work together, we received an invitation to serve at the branch office.
Music dey touch person mind.		Music makes you feel a feeling.
Na so Israel people still be.		Far from it.
Na true sey for World War I no happy with im people because their preaching work come slow down?		Is it true that was displeased with his servants because they had slowed down in their preaching activity during World War I?
Na wetin Paul mean when e sey dem die leave sin but dem dey alive for God matter.		They had died to that previous way of life.
One boy for Denmark wey dey 15 years talk sey: " When I talk sey I no sure whether our religion na the correct one, my papa and mama no vex for me, even though sey wetin I talk fit dey worry dem for mind.		When I said that I wondered if we had the true religion, " recalls a 15 - year - old in Denmark, " my parents took it calmly - even though they may have been worried about me.
Ontop that one, im wife papa try to play am wayo many times. But even with this one, Jacob continue to dey allow God spirit direct am.		On top of that, he had to deal with a deceitful father - in - law, who repeatedly tried to exploit him.
Paul dey tell us wetin dey do for us when we dey face problem, no be before we face problem.		Paul here describes what does, not before, but during trials.
Paul make sure sey e train Timothy well.		Paul did not leave Timothy 's training to chance.
Since Jesus don talk sey we no know the time when this world go end, now no be time to dey sleep for matter wey concern God. No be time to dey pursue the things wey people for this world dey pursue or the bad things wey our body want. All this things no go last.		Since Jesus said that the end will come " at an hour that [ we ] do not think to be it, " this is no time to doze off spiritually, no time to pursue the illusions and fantasies that Satan and his world offer and that our flesh craves.
So, for fake religion to fit control correct Christians for 1918, na im be sey God people go still be slave for their hand that time. But no be so e be.		Thus, in order to be subject to Babylonian captivity in 1918, God 's people would have had to become enslaved to false religion in some way at that time.
So, when we want choose how we go dress, make we no only think about wetin we like.		Therefore, our choice of dress and grooming should not be determined only by what is pleasing to us.
So no let your conscience dey judge you again! - Isa.		So take at his word, and accept his forgiveness! - Isa.
Some things wey make dem suffer na war wahala, trouble for inside congregation, work for Brooklyn Bethel wey stop, and as dem put many brothers and sisters for prison because dem dey support God Kingdom. Dem even arrest eight brothers wey dey use direct the work that time and na 20 years people wey arrest dem sey dem go stay prison.		To the Bible Students, Christian fellowship tasted especially sweet after the severe trials of the past few years: wartime opposition; bitter dissent in the congregations; the closing of Brooklyn Bethel; the imprisonment of many for the sake of the Kingdom, including eight leading brothers who had been sentenced to as long as 20 years behind bars.
Sometimes, brother or sister fit do wetin we no like.		True, we may at times have minor disagreements with fellow believers.
That one go help am use all im mind follow, or e go make am stop to dey serve? - Prov.		Will he be inclined to open his heart and mind to, or will he isolate himself spiritually? - Prov.
That time, I dey learn how to make and repair ship for the Royal Dockyard wey dey Chatham. People like this work because gain dey inside.		I had been working in the Royal Dockyard in Chatham as an apprentice shipwright, a coveted position with excellent benefits.
The Hebrew and Greek wey dem take write Bible different from the one wey people dey speak now.		Modern Hebrew and Greek are quite different from those languages back in Bible times.
The Jews no suppose surprise sey Babylon people come kill dem and destroy their city.		The destruction of Jerusalem should have come as no surprise to its inhabitants.
The commander for Rome army come arrest Paul.		The Roman military commander took Paul into custody.
The two mountain wey Zechariah see still be like the one wey Daniel see.		The mountains in Zechariah 's account are similar to two mountains described in Daniel 's prophecy.
They even ask us for magazines. "		They even asked for our magazines. "
Think am sey you dey waka near river. You come see something wey be like small stone wey dey shine.		Imagine that you are walking near a riverbank and see what seems to be a tiny pebble reflecting the sunlight.
This one give dem hope.		His assurance that the temple would be built must have brought hope to their tired hearts.
This one go make am easy for brothers to fit choose the song wey dem want use for their talk.		There is a subject index that will be helpful, for instance, when choosing a song for a public talk.
This things wey we don learn, dey make our faith strong sey no dey kill good people join bad people. ( 2 Pet.		Understanding these valuable lessons strengthens our confidence that does not destroy the righteous along with the wicked.
True true, Jesus sacrifice na gift wey give you!		Jesus ' sacrifice is 's gift to you.
True true, e no easy for me at all. But some brothers and sisters come arrange one small party. And dem invite my tight friends come so that only me no go dey alone. "		But a few brothers and sisters planned a small gathering of my closest friends so that I wouldn 't be on my own. "
Upon that one, Corinna and another sister still talk sey dem go do everything wey dem fit do to comot for the farm go meeting.		Even so, Corinna and another sister decided that they would do everything they could to leave the farm and go to a congregation meeting.
Wetin Devil talk na true?		Is Satan right?
Wetin Jesus talk for John 5: 22, 23 show sey that one na true. E talk sey: ' My Father no dey judge anybody at all, but e choose im Son to judge so that everybody go respect the Son as dem take dey respect the Father.		Jesus ' words that we read at John 5: 22, 23 help us to see that plainly: " The Father judges no one at all, but he has entrusted all the judging to the Son, so that all may honor the Son just as they honor the Father.
Wetin be the main thing wey you want use your life do? You dey do wetin go make your plan work? - Read Philippians 1: 10, 11.		Why not consider which goals are important to you and then start working toward them? - Read Philippians 1: 10, 11.
Wetin dey our hand to choose?		What choice does each of us have to make?
Wetin make us dey sure sey dey always do wetin correct?		Why can we be sure that God 's decisions are just?
Wetin papa and mama suppose know?		What important fact must parents recognize?
Wetin the driver talk really make im mind come down.		Those words strengthened her.
Wetin we go do if our brother or our sister for congregation do wetin we feel sey dem no suppose do?		What will we do if our Christian brothers disappoint us or if we feel that they do not treat us well?
When we dey respect and praise people, e go make dem no disturb our preaching work.		As we respect and show honor to those who are in positions of secular authority, it is more likely that they will defend our right to preach without interference.
Which other people fit carry stranger enter their house just because dem dey serve the same God?		Who else would welcome strangers into their home just because they worship the same God?
Who dash am! Na people dey build am. So everything get who make am.		If a building needs someone to construct it, how much more so do living things!
Why you don make up your mind to pursue blessing instead of money?		Why are you determined to seek spiritual riches?
THE one wey no reach anything go turn to one thousand and the one wey small go turn to big country. '		THE little one will become a thousand and the small one a mighty nation.
And because of wetin Jesus sacrifice do for us, Jesus come be our papa instead of Adam.		In a sense, Jesus takes the place of our original human father, Adam.
Bible talk sey, love ' no dey behave anyhow, e no dey find wetin go favor only am. ' - 1 Cor.		True love " does not behave indecently, does not look for its own interests. " - 1 Cor.
People wey dey behave like this dey follow wetin other people dey do. Dem dey always do wetin their body want.		This spirit influences most humans to adopt a common attitude - simply follow the crowd.
If husband and wife wey dey serve dey do things together, problem no go too dey the marriage.		In turn, wives are to submit to the headship of their husbands.
Dem go put eye for their work and dem no go sleep because if dem sleep, many people fit die. - Ezek.		It was a life - and - death matter that the watchmen remain awake and attentive at their posts. - Ezek.
But what if you come know sey one brother or sister dey vex for you.		Suppose you learn that a brother was offended by something you said or did.
As some people talk, e fit be sey Joseph no even dey when dem carry Jesus go court.		Perhaps, as some suggest, Joseph was not present at Jesus ' trial.
Matt.		There is no question about that.
And when you know sey e get wetin you fit do and wetin you no fit do, e go help you no disturb yourself too much. This one go make you allow God help you.		By maintaining a realistic estimate of your physical, mental, and emotional abilities, you will be less likely to become overwhelmed by anxiety, for you will be relying on God.
How the advice wey dey Bible take help congregation for the apostle time?		In what ways did counsel provided in God 's Word help the first - century congregations?
Wetin Adam and Eve come choose?		What did Adam and Eve decide?
Wetin go help dem no quick do this one?		What will help a marriage mate not to separate quickly?
Wetin be the hardest work wey papa and mama go ever do, and wetin go fit help dem?		What challenge do parents face, and how can they meet that challenge?
Wetin make many people sabi wetin dey Deuteronomy 6: 4?		Why are the words of Deuteronomy 6: 4 well - known?
How we fit use our book dem and other things take do research?		Using tools available to us, what kind of research might we do?
Satan de talk lie about through fake religion.		Through false religion, Satan promotes lies about.
But e no tire for imself, and help am.		But he did not give up.
Satan dey teach people lie lie. As people wey dey serve God, we need to stand well make we no fall for Satan trap. ( 2 Cor.		As Christians, we must wage a spiritual war against Satan and the false teachings that he promotes.
God let Jesus know sey e dey happy with am and sey e dey try well well.		God thus commended Jesus and assured him that he was doing well.
Some brothers and sisters don de serve for years. Their light still de shine, and them still dey happy.		Take note of sterling examples of brothers and sisters whose lives reflect their joy in keeping on the watch as well as letting their light shine.
Abraham get strong faith for. Na this one help am use im mind wait for am.		Abraham was willing to wait, because his patience was based on his faith in.
After show Ezekiel the bad things wey Jerusalem people dey do, e show am wetin go happen before dem go scatter am. Na around 607 years before Jesus time dem scatter Jerusalem.		After Ezekiel saw the wicked things being done in apostate Jerusalem prior to its destruction in 607 B.C.E., he was given a vision of the events leading up to that destruction.
And this e new friends fit even be im friends forever.		Instead, he gained new ones, who will likely remain his friends for life.
As dem dey speak Greek language, e come hard dem to understand Bible wey dem use Hebrew language write.		But as many Jews became Greek - speaking, understanding the Hebrew Scriptures became more difficult for most.
As everybody dey come down, my wife run follow the woman.		Once the bus stopped and the passengers disembarked, she chased after the woman who had spoken those words.
Because of favor, we fit talk to am for prayer even though sey e sitdown for im throne for heaven.		in his undeserved kindness grants us the blessing of approaching his heavenly throne in prayer.
Because we dey the ' last days, ' things dey ' hard to manage. '		Because we are living deep in " the last days, " we are experiencing " critical times hard to deal with. "
Bible talk sey: ' Keep better sense and the power wey you get to think.		The Bible states: " Safeguard practical wisdom and thinking ability.
But, we fit talk sey na make that heavy rain fall for that place and the time wey dem fight the war, so that e go hard the 900 horse to move.		But to what else besides divine intervention can we attribute such torrential rains at that precise location and exact moment, so as to swamp 900 war chariots?
But e get wetin show sey, sometimes, the sperm fit still reach where the egg dey.		Yet, some evidence suggested that an egg occasionally could get fertilized.
But even if na today I go die, I know sey I go see my friend [ Don ] again for Paradise.		But even if this is my last day, I know that I will see my friend [ Don ] again in Paradise.
But no let am make you stop to serve. Because if you stop, you go later see sey no other person love you reach your papa and mama wey dey serve and people for congregation.		But if you allow frustration to make you give up serving, you would soon discover that no one else cares for you more genuinely than your God - fearing parents and your congregation.
But some things wey e mention for Second Timothy, no dey any other place for the second part for Bible wey dem dey call Greek Scriptures.		The term " men " should be understood to mean " people, " since both men and women display such qualities.
But the thing wey e go help us pass na when we make God our tight friend. E go help us get correct peace.		Most important, to find lasting peace, we must cultivate a close friendship with God.
But we don already dey enjoy this peace wey dem dey try get.		While they desperately search for inner peace, we already enjoy it.
But wetin help Rachel continue to fight and bear this problem?		How did Rachel find the emotional and physical strength to continue battling against circumstances that were discouraging but completely beyond her control?
But what if you no fit preach reach as you want preach, because of sickness or old age?		But what if illness or advanced age somewhat limits your ministry?
David think about all the time wey don take bless am. E dey happy as e dey wait for the time when go end im wahala.		He joyfully looked forward to deliverance, and he reflected on how had dealt rewardingly with him.
Dem dey do am so that dem go fit continue to dey work and make money for the country wey dem dey.		It is a practice among certain immigrants to send their newborn babies to relatives to be cared for so that the parents can continue working and making money in their new country.
Dem dey sing together with one voice to praise and thank God. The trumpet, the cymbals, and other things wey dem take dey play music come dey make sound. ' As ' dem dey praise, glory come cover im house. '		The account tells us: " At the moment when the trumpeters and the singers were praising and thanking in unison, and as the sound ascended from the trumpets, the cymbals, and the other musical instruments as they were praising,. the glory of filled the house of the true God. "
Dem first put my name join people wey go fight war. But Jesus sey make people wey dey follow am no put hand for war or politics matter.		My local draft board initially classified me in a way that I felt was not in accord with Jesus ' admonition for his followers to be neutral as to politics.
Dem need to settle down look the matter well well. But the main thing wey dem need na holy spirit.		They needed insight, the ability to look beyond the obvious and to see into a matter.
Dem put mind for wetin God promise. The two of dem get strong faith.		They had strong faith, and they kept their joy alive despite negative experiences.
Dem put you inside water no mean sey you don turn to preacher. "		Besides, being dipped in the river does not make you a preacher. "
Dem send many missionary go different country. Many of dem come be the first Witness for there.		Many of them were the first in the countries to which they were assigned.
Dem use one of our tract wey be Which Kind Book You Think Sey Bible Be?		They use the tract How Do You View the Bible?
E do wetin im wife tell am. And that one spoil many things.		His misled wife influenced him to make an extremely poor choice, one that cost him life in Paradise and eventually his very life.
E fit don pain David sey e no do wetin e get for mind, but e still use everything support the work.		While David may have been disappointed that he could not fulfill his heart 's desire, he fully supported the project.
E fit help person wey e no happy.		The disciple James needed to give strong counsel.
E fit no be ministerial servant now, but e come see sey e need to get the kind character wey go make am fit be ministerial servant.		He may not now be serving as a ministerial servant, but he realizes that he needs to cultivate spiritual qualities.
E go make us really feel sorry and repent if we do any bad thing.		It will move us, if at times it is needed, to genuine repentance.
E good make we get am for mind sey na only get right to do wetin e want. And na im still get right to talk sey something good or bad.		When it comes to freedom, a key point for us to bear in mind is that God alone has what can be called absolute and unlimited freedom.
E help me get mind more more, and I come trust pass before. "		It helped me to be more courageous and to trust more in, " commented Zeynep from France.
E just be like sey nothing fit stop dem. No be only God temple dem get to build.		In addition to the temple work, the Israelites had to rebuild their cities.
E no tey again before Lauri and Ramoni come still comot for convent.		Soon after that, Lauri and Ramoni also left the convent.
E sey: ' See!		He exclaimed: " Look!
E tell the woman sey e understand how things be.		Her verbal abuse was unjustified.
E use name swear sey e go do everything wey the king of Babylon tell am.		Zedekiah swore by that he would remain a loyal vassal to the king of Babylon.
Even as we get sin for our body, we fit win Satan because go help us.		With 's backing, even imperfect humans can conquer Satan.
Everybody for congregation get the chance to help other people ( Check paragraph 14 )		Each one in the congregation can be a source of encouragement to others ( See paragraph 14 )
For example, Emperor Constantine arrange meeting with Church leaders and the name of that meeting come be Council of Nicaea. After the meeting, e talk sey make dem pursue one priest wey im name na Arius comot for the area because Arius no gree sey Jesus and God na the same person.		For example, after the Council of Nicaea, Constantine, who was present at the council, ordered Arius, a dissenting priest, into exile because Arius refused to acknowledge Jesus as God.
For only 2015, na around 12.4 million people run comot from their place.		An estimated 12.4 million people were displaced during 2015 alone.
For the prayer, we still tell am the day we go start. "		We also included in our prayers the specific date we were going to put our plan into action. "
For this topic, we go learn wetin fit help us bear the wahala.		In this article, we will learn how we can successfully deal with the challenges of family opposition.
How Hezekiah take help im men and im people?		How did Hezekiah encourage the military chiefs and the people of Judah?
How Hezekiah take show sey e trust finish?		How did Hezekiah show complete reliance on God?
How I fit do wetin I learn?		How can I apply this information in my life?
How we go take know wetin want make we do for matter wey Bible law no dey?		When the Bible does not give us a specific law, how can we know what would please?
How you go feel if your tight friend leave you when you really need am?		How would you feel if a close friend turned his back on you when you needed him most?
I dey happy to see you. "		It 's really good to see you. "
I learn say na the name of God Almighty. And na one of the first thing wey I learn.		I learned early on that the personal name of God Almighty is.
I no believe sey dem go fit call ordinary person like me.		I was amazed that someone as insignificant as I am would receive such an invitation.
If we dey do wetin go make peace dey, how that one go take make all of us continue to get one mind?		How does proving ourselves to be peacemakers promote unity?
no put hand for things wey no go make you near?		to avoid vain pursuits?
Witness people dey go help this kind people. We dey go help dem because we dey pity for dem. ( 1 Pet.		s people are known for coming forward to help in such times of need.
come help im people as e don promise before. E use Cyrus, wey be Persia king take free Israel people from Babylon.		However, true to God 's prophetic word, deliverance came through Cyrus, king of Persia.
use im mind send im Son come die for us.		was not obliged to have his Son come to earth to provide the ransom.
Jesus talk say: " The Father fit give wuna anything wey wuna use my name ask. "		Jesus stated: " No matter what you ask the Father in my name, he [ will ] give it to you. "
Macmillan talk sey the topic " Gospel of the Kingdom " wey dey July 1, 1920 Watch Tower, na the first topic for our book wey talk sey make brothers and sisters for the whole world dey preach about God Kingdom.		Macmillan later called " the first official expression of the worldwide preaching work as it is now actually being carried out. "
Make we no dey look prayer as something wey no mean anything. And make we no dey look am like charm wey people think sey dey bring good luck, or wey dey make person plan get head.		A Christian should not view prayer as a meaningless ritual; nor is it a ' good luck charm ' to increase the chances of success at some endeavor.
Make we put this one for mind when we dey build or maintain house, or when we dey drive go Kingdom Hall or assembly.		Never put production, finances, or schedules ahead of safety and health.
Many brothers and sisters no think sey their person fit die before God Kingdom come.		Many in the Christian congregation may not have expected their loved ones to die this side of Armageddon.
Many things wey people today dey feel sey no go fit comot, go comot when the Kingdom come.		Much of what people today commonly consider to be permanent features of life in this world will be gone.
Na e make Paul talk say: " Each person go get reward for the way e do e own work. " ( 1 Cor.		Paul mentioned that same truth when he said: " Each person will receive his own reward according to his own work. "
Na e make for 2017, people wey they come Memorial from this three town almost reach two times the number of publishers for this area, or half of the people for the three town.		As a result, in 2017, these three towns had a combined Memorial attendance of almost double the number of publishers - or half the entire population.
Na so e still be when forgive our sin. We no need to fear sey never forgive us or sey e go punish us again for wetin we do. - Read Psalm 103: 8 - 12.		Similarly, once has forgiven our sin, we do not need to fear that he is looking for a reason to bring up that sin again or to judge us for it. - Read Psalm 103: 8 - 12.
Na something wey we no go stop to do. This one help us know sey whether we just baptize or e don tey wey we baptize, we fit continue to correct our way so that we go fit be Christian wey get ' the new character. '		This is encouraging, for it assures us that regardless of how long we have been serving, we can keep making progress in cultivating and refining the Christian qualities that make up the new personality.
No wonder vex for dem well well. ( Num.		Is it any wonder that became very angry with his people?
ON MONDAY September 1, 1919 sun come shine after the heavy breeze and rain wey don fall for some days.		AFTER days of wind and rain, Monday, September 1, 1919, dawned warm and sunny.
On top all this one, make we continue to use plenty time preach, because the preaching work go help us continue to get hope for the better things wey don promise.		Above all, we stay busy in the preaching work, knowing that this work strengthens our hope for the future.
One brother interview us, e name na Simon Kraker.		A dear brother, Simon Kraker, interviewed us.
One man wey read one of their letter, write sey: " Una do well o for wetin una write, e make my mind come down.		In his response, one man wrote: " I am very grateful for your comforting words.
Or dem come Jerusalem to do wetin go only favor theirself?		Had they returned to their homeland simply to further their own interests?
Or e still concern people wey go stay for this earth?		Or does it also speak to Christians who hope to live on earth?
Other elders for there dey happy sey Dannykarl and im wife Jennifer, dey the congregation.		His fellow elders view Dannykarl and his wife, Jennifer, as a blessing to the congregation.
People think sey life go better after World War 1 but e no happen like that.		The Great War had not lived up to the promise of making the world a better place.
So, ' dey happy because of, and e go give you wetin you want. ' - Ps.		Yes, " find exquisite delight in, and he will grant you the desires of your heart. " - Ps.
So, we dey sure sey e still get that kind mind for us today. - Read Jeremiah 29: 11, 12.		We can be sure that he wants the best for us, as he did for his servants in the past. - Read Jeremiah 29: 11, 12.
So, whether we get hope to go heaven or to stay for this earth, wetin dey Romans chapter 8 fit help us.		Accordingly, whether we are spirit anointed or we hope to live permanently in a paradise on earth, we can be thankful for the inspired counsel in Romans chapter 8.
So David do everything wey e fit do to support the work. Na im make e arrange many things down for the work.		So David focused on what he could do to assist, preparing materials in great quantity.
So that e no go hard anybody to quick run reach there, if e kill person by mistake.		So that any fugitive could find refuge quickly and conveniently.
Soldier wey no trust im oga, no fit fight well.		A soldier whose loyalty to his leader is weakened will not fight well.
Some of dem go stubborn. Dem no go dey think before dem do things, and dem no dey care if wetin dem do dey cause problem for other people.		Some would be headstrong, or impulsive and reckless.
That one fit be the reason why e come be Jesus disciple. ( Mark 15: 43; Matt.		He was also " waiting for the Kingdom of God, " which may explain why he became one of Jesus ' disciples.
That one go make you trust am, learn from am, and copy im better example.		Then you can put your trust in him and learn from him, imitating his successes.
That time Israel people don ready to cross river Jordan, make dem enter the Promise Land.		The nation was about to cross the river Jordan to take possession of the Promised Land.
The book wey dem dey call What Does the Bible Really Teach?		That verse is repeatedly used in the book What Does the Bible Really Teach?
The chain wey dem take chain all the prisoners come loose.		All the prisoners ' bonds are loosened.
The hope wey we get for wetin go do, go fit help us make we no too worry about any problem wey we dey face now.		Our Bible - based hope has the power to reduce present anxiety.
The law show sey hate the kind cloth wey person go wear and you no go know whether na man or woman.		The Law showed 's strong feelings against clothing that does not make clear the distinction between male and female - what has been described in our day as unisex fashion.
The more e serious, the more we go think about am and pray well well before we choose.		The weightier ones call for more thought and prayerful consideration, which may take time.
The thing pain me well well because I know sey we fit no be friend again. '		It was as if my whole world were falling apart because I knew that we would go our separate ways.
The truth be sey, all of us need to get things wey we plan to do for, no be only young people.		Of course, the counsel to have spiritual goals applies not just to youths.
Their daughter wey im name na Sakiko talk sey: " Around 1990, when we dey preach, we dey always meet people wey pack from Brazil come Japan.		Sakiko, the daughter, relates: " In the 1990 ' s, we often met Brazilian immigrants when we were in the field ministry.
They invite us make we come serve for Bethel, for United State. Around 38 years don pass since we first apply to go Bethel.		We were invited to serve at the United States Bethel - some 38 years after the first time we applied.
This Jesus story make us remember one character wey get wey Bible talk about plenty times - im ' undeserved kindness ' ( favor ).		Jesus ' parable reminds us of one of 's qualities that is often mentioned in the Bible - his " undeserved kindness. "
This new Christians come be ' people wey dem choose, king and priest, holy country, people wey be special property. '		These new Christians became " a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for special possession. "
This one come make you like the topic more.		As a result, you come away from that talk with renewed appreciation for the subject.
This one na the worse thing for our life wey e don make us feel pain.		Losing him was the most traumatic event in our lives.
True true, the love wey get for im servant no dey end.		Indeed, 's loyal love for his servants is constant.
We dey listen to when we dey do Bible study. But we dey talk to when we dey pray.		While personal study is one way we listen to, prayer is a way in which we speak to him.
We dey prepare wetin we go talk with am so that quarrel no go start.		We would prepare topics to discuss so that we could keep the conversation friendly.
We dey sure sey e go really make sense to see how go handle matter by imself.		We can trust that it will be thrilling to observe personally how handles those matters.
We go answer this question for the next topic.		The next article will address this matter.
We go come really know sey ' no far from anybody wey dey call am. ' ( Ps.		We come to realize ever more that " is near to all those calling on him. "
We go gain other things as we dey try to get the joy wey God spirit dey make person get.		As we develop godly joy, we will experience benefits that go beyond simply how we feel inside.
We go still talk about four gift wey give us so that e go help us endure as we de preach.		In addition, we will examine four gifts from that help us to endure in bearing fruit.
We really like am as dem support us, and we still like the way our friend dem for the area take help us!		How we appreciated their self - sacrificing spirit as well as the help of the local friends in the area!
Wetin don give us to make our faith strong, and wetin we go do with am?		What provisions has kindly made for us to develop a strong faith, and what must we do with those provisions?
Wetin be the main thing wey you suppose get for mind as you dey teach your pikin?		What should you have as a primary goal when teaching your children?
Wetin people don see about Witness?		What has been noted about 's?
Wetin people want no be the same because of where dem dey stay.		What people want may vary considerably, depending on where they live.
Wetin people wey like peace go gain?		What blessings will we enjoy when we " seek peace " with one another?
When apostle Paul tell Christian to dey encourage each other why e use the word " especially "?		Why did the apostle Paul use the expression " all the more so " when he instructed Christians to encourage one another?
When e talk story about im life, e sey: ' For May 1949, I tell branch office for Bern sey I want marry. '		In his life story, Brother Diehl related: " In May 1949, I informed headquarters in Bern that I planned to marry. "
When some people wey go abroad born pikin, dem dey like send the pikin go house make their family people train am for dem.		To illustrate the importance of doing so, consider a sensitive subject that affects many parents.
Which serious matter Paul talk about for Romans 8: 4 - 13?		At Romans 8: 4 - 13, what serious matter did Paul address?
You fit help dem find work wey dem fit dey do from their new place?		Could you help them find a job as a remote worker to enable them to stay in their assignment?
paragraph 15 ) For inside Benefit From Theocratic Ministry School Education, pp. 52 - 61, we go see how we fit sabi give talk well for congregation.		paragraph 15 ) Benefit From Theocratic Ministry School Education, pp. 52 - 61, explains the qualities needed for effective public speaking.
Everything just different from how we dey do things for our place.		Everything was so different from what I was used to.
I de pray Father make all of them be one, the way you be one with me. ' - JOHN 17: 20, 21.		I make request. that they may all be one, just as you, Father, are in union with me. " - JOHN 17: 20, 21.
Nov.		Battle Belongs to " ( David ), No. 5
Why e good make we dey train people like that today?		How important is such training today?
As people wey Christ don send message, na ' other sheep ' dey do this work pass. Dem dey teach people the truth wey dey Bible and dey help dem make dem come be friend.		Serving as Christ 's envoys, as it were, they are having the biggest share in teaching people spiritual truth and helping them to develop a personal relationship with.
Make we do like Jesus; make we use our freedom take praise and do wetin e want.		May we imitate Jesus and use our free will to honor and to do his will!
Na only favor fit make this one happen.		This will be possible only through 's extraordinary kindness.
If people wey come from another place get this kind character, brothers and sisters for congregation go respect dem and other people wey dey the place go still respect dem.		When immigrants display such a fine attitude, they are more likely to gain the respect of local residents and fellow believers.
Wetin go make us happy and enjoy life?		What will give our life real meaning and satisfaction?
Wetin fit help you near people wey come from another place?		How can you overcome awkward feelings about approaching individuals from another culture?
Wetin we fit learn from apostle Peter example, and from the things wey e talk?		How can the apostle Peter 's example and counsel help us?
How dem go fit do this one if dem no really sabi the language wey the congregation dey use?		How can they do that if they are unable to grasp fully the language spoken in the congregation?
Heb. 11: 10 ) Jesus talk sey: " Abraham wey be una papa happy well well sey e go see my day. "		Jesus said: " Abraham your father rejoiced greatly at the prospect of seeing my day. "
How I fit use wetin I don learn.		How can I apply this information.
After don correct dem finish, e come give dem another work.		After receiving needed discipline, 's cleansed people were ready to take up a further assignment of service.
After small time, I come want baptize. For September 5, 1941, Bill come baptize me for one drum wey dem use steel make.		Before long, I wanted to get baptized, and on September 5, 1941, Bill baptized me in a steel drum filled with water pumped out from a well.
After that time, Peter begin chop and do things with Christians wey they no be Jew.		Thereafter, Peter enjoyed food and association with Gentile believers.
And e don tey wey this chariot dey move!		The chariot certainly has been on the move!
And how e go take affect how we dey live our life?		And how will our spirituality impact our daily life?
And wetin we fit learn from Abigail example? Abigail marry one man wey im name na Nabal.		What prompted David to praise her, and how can we benefit from her example?
As people, na wetin talk we go first do, before our oga own.		As Christians, we owe our primary loyalty to God, not to our employer.
As wetin we plant need water to grow na so e still be with our faith.		The need to keep our faith healthy can be likened to a plant 's need for water.
Because na the mind person dey use show sey e get faith for wetin dey right, but na mouth person take dey tell people wetin go save dem. ' - Rom.		For with the heart one exercises faith for righteousness, but with the mouth one makes public declaration for salvation. " - Rom.
Before dem print any book, I go read am for Brother Franz.		Brother Franz had a remarkable memory and the amazing ability to concentrate totally on what was being read.
Bible help dem?		guided by God 's Word?
But, anything wey we choose fit make us suffer well well or enjoy life.		However, many of our decisions, the choices we make, can have a profound effect on us.
But e do am because na better friend im be. - 2 Sam.		He proved to be a loyal friend. - 2 Sam.
But e get one baptism wey John do wey dey special. The person no baptize to show sey e don comot hand from sin.		It is noteworthy, however, that the most important baptism that John performed had nothing to do with repentance.
But e get one time wey something want separate dem.		There was a time, however, when their friendship was in jeopardy.
David talk sey: ' The work big no be small, because the temple no be man own but na God own. ' - 1 Chron.		The work is great, " says David, " for it is not a temple for man but for God. " - 1 Chron.
Dem continue to preach. When government try to stop dem, dem no gree.		To protect our right to do that, the brothers fought many legal battles.
Dem dey pay Witness people for their preaching work? No!		What is the record of 's regarding collections?
E ask me say: " So, you no well? "		Now, what seems to be troubling you?
E bear am when some people wey dey work for the king court talk bad about am. ( Ps.		He had to put up with the scornful attitude of some members of the royal court.
E come be like marriage wey get serious problem.		What a difficult " marriage " that proved to be!
E dey lie! '		They are lying to you! '
E dey mek me vex.		It makes me feel sick.
E fit no work.		Not likely.
E get one brother wey fall for this trap. When e come back to, e talk sey the power wey sex matter get, strong well well sotey e don already fall put before im eye clear.		One brother who was swept away by immoral desires said after he returned to the congregation, " I was drawn by a force so powerful that I did not turn back until it was too late. "
E good make we dey think about how God, our brothers and sisters and the people wey we dey preach to, go feel when we dey choose the kind cloth wey we go wear. So, make we wear cloth wey go make people praise and listen to our preaching. ( Rom.		We owe it to our holy God, to our spiritual brothers and sisters, as well as to the people in our territory to wear clothing that dignifies the message we bear and that brings glory to.
E tell my mama say I be bad example for other children for school because I de follow Witness people.		He told my mother that my association with 's set a bad example for the other students.
E use clear voice take answer the two question wey the brother wey dey give the talk ask.		In a loud, clear voice, she answered two questions that the speaker posed.
E welcome me with all e heart.		He gave me a warm and hearty welcome.
Felisa: After some time, I come marry and I come dey stay for Cantabaria, one town wey dey Spain.		Felisa: Some time later, I got married and went to live in Cantabria, a province in Spain.
For example, those things dey make people believe sey dem get sense pass other people or better pass dem.		For example, it may make a person feel wise and superior to others.
For this topic, we go answer four question: ( 1 ) How I go take prepare for Memorial so that I go gain something from am?		Some questions have arisen that this article will answer. ( 1 ) How can we individually prepare for the Memorial and benefit from attending it?
Help people wey no too strong.		Support those who are weak.
How e be sey wetin we need different from wetin we want?		What difference is there between what we need and what we want?
How things be for Noah time?		Describe the situation that Noah faced.
How we go take do am?		How so?
How we take know? The Law wey give Moses sey: ' If anybody promise something or swear, make e no change mouth.		The Mosaic Law stated: " If a man makes a vow to or swears an oath to impose on himself a vow., he must not violate his word.
How you think sey Ruth go feel about all this things when bring am come life again? - Ruth 4: 13; Matt.		And imagine how moved she will be to discover that her life story was preserved in a Bible book bearing her name! - Ruth 4: 13; Matt.
I dey quick obey and support brothers wey dey direct us? ' - w16.11, p.		Am I quick to accept and support the directions received? ' - w16.11, p.
I know sey I need to take am sofri with dem.		I needed to be patient with them.
If fit dey give sun power, that one mean sey e fit give us power wey go help us bear any problem.		Can anyone doubt that the One who " fuels " the sun can give us the strength we need to cope with any problem?
If husband and wife wey dey serve no want born pikin, dem need to check wetin Bible talk before dem choose wetin dem want use.		Christians ought to weigh any birth control method in the light of Bible principles.
If na you, wetin fit help you continue?		If you face circumstances that bring you stress or make you feel weighed down physically, emotionally, or even spiritually, where can you receive the needed courage?
If we follow Jesus advice, we dey join hand to make the congregation get one mind.		When we do so, we promote unity in the family of 's worshippers.
If you be elder, how you go take know person wey no really happy for wetin e do and wey ready to change?		If you are an elder, then, how can you meet the challenge of discerning heartfelt repentance?
If you be papa or mama, e still good make you beg God for im spirit to help you know how to correct your pikin. That spirit go help you to dey show love when you dey correct your pikin.		Or if you are a parent, you can request that God 's spirit help you to discipline your children, not in anger, but in love.
If you do this one, the way you go take enjoy preaching fit surprise you.		It might surprise you how much joy you will then find when preaching.
If you want learn more about this matter, check " Questions From Readers " wey dey August 15, 2002 Watchtower.		For more information on training children in a religiously divided household, see " Questions From Readers " in The Watchtower, August 15, 2002.
Jacob, Rachel, Joseph, and Paul suffer many things wey make dem weak, but dem bear am and God later bless dem. Their example show sey if we fit bear suffer, we go gain.		Jacob, Rachel, Joseph, and Paul faced circumstances that were emotionally and physically draining, yet they proved that perseverance leads to rich blessings.
don sofri use im holy spirit help me change my bad character. "		For many years, patiently helped me by means of his holy spirit to put on the new personality. "
Like Ruth for olden days, people for the whole world get faith sey go fit help dem.		Like Ruth of old, Christians around the globe have shown faith in 's power to help.
Like the 17 brothers and sisters wey go Ghana go preach, many publisher for the whole world don let the love wey dem get for make dem ' use their mind join ' do work.		As in the case of the 17 need - greaters who have moved to Ghana, many thousands of evangelizers worldwide have been motivated by love for to " offer themselves willingly. "
Luke talk about Mary pass Joseph. For example, e tell us how Mary take go visit Elizabeth. E still tell us wetin Mary do when dem later see Jesus for the temple when e dey 12 years. - w17.08, p.		Luke is more focused on Mary; for example, her visit to Elizabeth and her reaction when the boy Jesus remained at the temple. - w17.08, p.
Make my wife talk the thing wey e de remember about our life for Pine Bluff: " I really like the place!		Here is how Gloria remembers our time in Pine Bluff: " I fell in love with the territory!
Make we first talk about Asa and wetin we fit learn from im example.		Let us first consider Asa and see how God 's Word can influence our life.
Make we happy dey do anything wey sey make we do, because ' God love person wey dey happy to give. '		Let us enjoy what he asks us to do, for " God loves a cheerful giver. "
Make we no ever stop to dey thank sey e use im Son wey be our Leader and ' the Person wey dey make our faith strong ' take draw us near imself.		We should never cease thanking for drawing us to himself through his Son, " the Chief Agent and Perfecter of our faith. "
My papa die six month before dem born me, and na when I still be baby my mama die.		Father died six months before I was born, and Mother died while I was still an infant.
Na 1973 I come baptize.		In 1973, I got baptized.
Na dem be my family. I know sey no matter the assignment wey dem give us, dey give us everything wey we need.		I do not have the slightest doubt that provides everything we need, no matter what assignment we receive.
Na eight children we be, and na me be second pikin. When I dey eight years, my grandpapa and grandmamma come carry me go stay their place.		I was the second of eight children, and my grandparents had taken me to live with them when I was eight years old.
Na this one make am dey pity people and teach dem well. Na this character make people wey get better mind dey near am.		Jesus ' humility and obedience drew people of honest heart to him and helped to make him a compassionate and gracious teacher.
No wonder them de always encourage us make we read Bible everyday. ( Ps.		That is why we have repeatedly been encouraged to read a portion of the Bible daily.
Or I dey alive for God matter? '		Am I living with reference to God by Christ Jesus? '
Paul advice us sey make we ' make sure sey we dey do the things wey dey important pass. ' ( Phil.		Make sure of the more important things, " urged Paul.
Pavel preach for Sakhalin reach 1995.		Pavel served on Sakhalin until 1995.
Person fit dey happy or dey laugh, but that one no mean sey e get joy.		To illustrate: After too many drinks, a drunkard may be in a hilarious mood.
Sin fit make us dey do bad things. Apart from that one, e fit make us no do wetin we know sey correct, or wetin we know sey we fit do. Na this one make all of us be slave to sin.		Not only can sin lead us to doing what is bad but it can also prevent us from doing what we know is right or from living up to what we know we are capable of.
Since that time, e don help other brothers wey get the same problem.		Since then, he has helped other brothers to overcome similar trials and to recover spiritually.
So another thing wey go help you na to open your mouth well when you dey sing.		So another suggestion is to open your mouth wider than you do for normal speaking.
Some of our book fit help dem manage this problem.		How may all of us benefit from reading such material?
That one mean sey na im we don choose as our King.		We also demonstrate our support of his sovereignty.
The book still talk sey, the Pharisee and Scribe dem still dey argue about which container person go use pour the water, which kind water dem go use, who go pour am, and where dem go wash the hand reach.		The above - quoted source adds: " It is also debated which vessels are to be used for the pouring, which kind of water is suitable, who should pour, and how much of the hands should be covered with water. "
The next day, one soldier give me bread, water and long sweater; e do well for my body.		The following day, a kindly soldier gave me bread and water and an overcoat.
The place dey north side of Jerusalem. From Jerusalem go reach there na about 22 miles ( 35 km ). - 1 Sam.		This was the prophet Samuel 's hometown, located some 22 miles ( 35 km ) northwest of Jerusalem. - 1 Sam.
The thing be sey, we no go only ' trust ' but we go ' do wetin good. '		In short, we need both ' to trust in and to do what is good '; we need ' to act with faithfulness. '
Think about why those things wey dem dey talk fit make sense to people, wetin make am no correct, and why e no good make we follow am.		Consider why the idea may sound appealing, why such thinking is faulty, and how you can refute it.
This two topic talk about three people example wey go help us copy how take dey judge matter.		These articles examine three Bible accounts that will assist us to have 's view of justice.
To know the people wey really dey preach the good news wey Jesus talk about, we go answer this four question:		To know who are preaching the good news today in fulfillment of Jesus ' prophecy, we need to answer these four questions:
True true, preaching go make us continue to put mind for wetin don promise and we no go tire to run the race wey go give us life. - 1 Cor.		Indeed, sharing in the preaching work fortifies our positive view of the future and our resolve not to give up in the race for life. - 1 Cor.
We don still try to learn many new things wey we suppose learn and we don help our brothers well.		We have also tried to make the necessary adjustments and serve our brothers well.
We must confess our sin to am.		We must confess our sins to him.
We need to dey study Bible and our book dem everytime, and dey do research.		We must develop good personal study habits and do careful research in God 's Word and in our publications.
Wetin be the two things wey Hebrews 11: 1 take explain wetin faith be?		In what two ways does Hebrews 11: 1 describe faith?
Wetin you fit tell person wey talk sey e fit know wetin good even if e no believe sey God dey?		How can we reason about the notion that a person can determine what is good without believing in God?
Which better thing come out from wetin Jesus talk and wetin e do?		What result did Jesus ' words and actions produce?
Which example Jesus show wey we need to copy?		What example did Jesus set in showing mildness and patience?
Which kind " yeast " Jesus warn e disciples about?		What kind of " leaven " did Jesus tell his disciples to avoid?
Why e be sey na favor God show us as e send Jesus come die for us?		Why is God 's provision of the ransom an undeserved kindness?
Why e good to know where we suppose do reach?		Why is modesty still important?
You come tell dem sey you want be Witness. ( Mark 8: 38 ) Because you no want leave, your family people fit dey give you wahala. E get things wey you fit do make the wahala no too much and still dey serve. Make we talk about dem.		If your courageous stand has resulted in a problem between you and your non - Witness relatives, consider some steps to take to reduce conflict and still maintain integrity.
You fit use like 1 year finish am.		You might try to do that over a period of 12 months.
You fit use the one wey dey inside Watchtower wey be " The Bible Changes Lives. "		It might be from the series " The Bible Changes Lives, " published in The Watchtower.
how dey feel when we go meeting.		how feels when we attend meetings.
wetin you promise for your wedding day?		your marriage vow?
wey dey December 8, 2003 Awake!		of December 8, 2003.
As the king just hear wetin dem write for inside the Law, e come tear im cloth. '		As soon as the king heard the words of the book of the Law, he ripped his garments apart.
Make we do like apostle Paul wey tell other people like am wey go follow Jesus rule for heaven sey dem ' no be stranger ' and dem ' no dey another man land again, ' but dem ' be people wey dey part of God family. '		We should have a view like that of the apostle Paul, who admonished his fellow anointed Christians that they were " no longer strangers and foreigners, but. members of the household of God. "
Jesus first know sey many of im disciple go run comot from where dem dey stay.		Jesus had foreseen that many of his followers would be forced from their homes.
Our answer to this question go help us know how our friendship with strong reach.		Thinking about our answers to these questions can help us measure our spiritual progress.
Jesus wey be the head of the congregation dey treat us well.		Jesus exercises his headship over his congregation with loving patience.
Think about the many things wey we dey learn from our Bible reading every week if we prepare, and the ones wey we dey hear from our brothers and sisters when dem dey talk wetin dem don learn from the Bible reading.		And think of the many things we discover every week when we prepare for the Bible reading and then hear what others have learned from it.
Wetin fit make the message wey dey Bible touch us?		We can benefit from God 's Word especially if what is true?
Which question you go ask yourself?		What question must each of us ask?
Which people Matthew 24: 12 first happen to?		To whom did Jesus ' words at Matthew 24: 12 initially apply?
Wetin that one mean for Jephthah pikin?		What did that mean for her?
Even now, don give us plenty brothers and sisters wey love us and wey dey follow us serve am.		Even now, provides a wholesome group of fellow worshippers.
Pet. 4: 9 ) If Christian suppose do good to brothers wey visit from other place, then dem suppose still do good to brothers wey wahala pursue from where dem dey stay, because dem dey serve! - Read Proverbs 3: 27.		If Christians are to welcome visiting brothers, how much more should they welcome fellow believers whose lives are in danger or who have been persecuted for their faith! - Read Proverbs 3: 27.
All that angels decide say they no go be part of the family of God. So na Satan begin control them.		When those angels abandoned God 's family, they put themselves on Satan 's side as opposers of God 's will.
This one no mean sey im disciples get one one angel wey dey protect dem. Wetin e mean be sey angels dey put eye for the things wey Jesus disciples dey do. - wp17.5, p.		He was saying that angels are interested in his disciples, not that angels are miraculously protecting each one of them. - wp17.5, p.
But Bible sey na be the Person wey really give dem the Law. Even Moses go do wetin the Law talk.		Nevertheless, the Scriptures identify as the actual Lawgiver, and Moses himself was subject to that Law.
Once dem judge the matter finish, dem no go judge the person again for the same matter. And the person wey get the right to kill am no go fit enter the city go kill am.		did not require the manslayer to be judged again for the same case; nor was the avenger of blood permitted to enter the city and take the fugitive 's life.
E no good make we get that kind character because we dey serve.		Of course, 's servants would never want to display hypocritical love.
That one no show sey God get us for mind?		Is that not a manifestation of his care?
Na true sey we no dey follow the Law wey give Israel people again.		We are no longer under the Law.
Adam still learn how to take care of imself, the animals, and the garden. ( Gen.		Adam also learned how to take care of his needs and how to care for the animals and the land.
After apostle Paul don warn us make we no ' dey put mind for the flesh, ' e talk about one better thing.		After the apostle warned us against " setting the mind on the flesh, " he offered this positive assurance: " Setting the mind on the spirit means life and peace. "
All this things dey make belle sweet us. I still be doctor, but no be only people wey dey sick I dey help. I dey use all my mind and power help people learn about, and I dey help my brothers and sisters for congregation. This one dey really make me happy. "		I still practice medicine, but being able to focus most of my time and energy on helping to heal people spiritually and on caring for the needs of the congregation brings me heartfelt joy and inner satisfaction. "
And e still help dem use their mind wait for wetin promise dem.		It was their faith in and their trust in his dealings with them.
And no give the talk to make people praise you. No forget sey to read Bible for person different from to teach am wetin Bible talk.		Also, remember that simply reading a number of scriptures does not in itself constitute teaching from the Bible.
And true - true, e really get another thing for us.		He certainly did.
Apostle Paul tell us the answer for the letter wey e write give Hebrew Christians.		The apostle Paul gives us the reason in his letter to Hebrew Christians.
Before, one brother from Canada hate people wey their language dey different from e own.		A Canadian brother mentioned the prejudice he once had concerning language.
Before God destroy the world for Noah time, e talk something about im pikin wey be Noah. E sey: ' Because curse the ground, we dey do hard work sotey our hand dey pepper us. But Noah go make our mind come down. '		That family man said of his son Noah: " [ He ] will bring us comfort from our labor and from the painful toil of our hands because of the ground that has cursed. "
Bible talk sey: ' God na love. '		God is love.
But Bible talk sey " cool temper dey give life to person body. " ( Prov.		On the other hand, " a calm heart gives life to the body, " says the Bible.
But how the person feel about wetin e do, and wetin dey im mind go help the elders know.		It involves a person 's viewpoint, disposition, and heart condition.
But the reason wey we get today pass their own. Paul no happy sey e dey make mistake.		In fact, we have even greater reason than the Israelites had for confidence in 's mercy.
But we fit dey fear because we no know whether we go really happy as we want make our life simple.		At the same time, we may find ourselves worrying about whether we could be genuinely happy with less in a material way.
Daniel know God well and that one help am.		How accurate knowledge of God benefited Daniel.
Dem dey do the kind work wey I for do, if to sey I study law.		They do the sort of work I would be doing had I studied law.
Dem fly with their strong wing come carry the container wey " Wickedness " dey.		These women use their powerful wings to swoop in and lift up the container containing " Wickedness. "
E dey hard me to explain the kind joy wey we get. "		It 's hard for me to express the joy we feel. "
E dey help me know sey wetin dey pain me, still dey pain dem. '		At that moment, I don 't feel quite so alone in my grief. "
E even make am sick. This kind thing dey happen to many people today.		Sadly, countless others experience this kind of agony.
E fit be sey na the Law wey God give Moses still help Jephthah do the correct thing.		Again, the principles in God 's Law must have helped Jephthah to make the right choice.
E get anything wey you fit do to fit do more for God work?		Can you simplify your life to focus more on the Kingdom?
E get many things wey you fit do if people want force you do wetin no good.		There are a number of ways to combat peer pressure.
E give Adam and Eve freedom and other things wey go make dem happy.		He gave the first human couple everything that they needed to be happy - including true freedom.
E live around the time wey Jesus come this earth. Judas na fake messiah, and e deceive many people.		He was a false messiah in the first century who misled a large number.
E no dey gree blame imself.		When things go wrong, they tend to blame others rather than accept responsibility.
E no easy to do this one, but we know sey e dey make happy.		It requires effort and self - sacrifice.
E talk sey: " We get many better story about things wey happen as we dey help congregation wey dey speak another language. And we don get plenty friend.		Thinking back, she says: " The many experiences we have had in helping out in a foreign - language field, along with the friendships we have made, have truly enriched our lives.
Even if e be like say people no de accept the good news wey we de preach, make we no forget how our work fit affect people.		Even if it appears that the Kingdom message we preach is not reaching the hearts of people, we should not underestimate the impact of our sowing work.
Even if the governor no see am as wetin e suppose do to help im servant get im cloth back, make e pity for am help am!		If the governor does not consider it his obligation to have your servant 's garment sent back, do it out of pity!
Every servant of suppose to grow " pass the first things " wey they learn as Christian. They need to " work hard till [ they ] mature. " ( Heb.		All Christians should want to move " beyond the primary doctrine about the Christ " and to " press on to maturity. "
Everybody go soon dey worship only and na wetin want be that.		s purpose regarding pure worship " will occur. "
How Psalm 61 wey David write take help you see sey na fine thing Hannah do? Hannah no waste time do wetin e promise God.		How do David 's expressions recorded in Psalm 61 remind you of Hannah 's exemplary attitude?
FOR the night before Jesus die, e spend plenty time with e apostles. E use this time tell them say e really love them.		ON THE last evening before his death, Jesus had a long talk with his apostles during which he assured them of his deep love for them.
For example, dem fit dey fear because of the problem wey fit come when woman get belle, when e dey born, or after e don born.		Usually, a couple 's joy over their prospective child is tinged with some apprehension about medical issues that may arise during the pregnancy or later.
For example, we go dey preach and teach people about God Kingdom.		For example, we keep on preaching about God 's Kingdom and sharing in the work of making disciples.
For our time, plenty people don run comot from their country go another country because of suffer.		In recent years, many countries have experienced an influx of refugees.
For school, one young sister dey get wahala from im classmate dem because e no gree salute flag.		A young girl was pressured by her classmates because for religious reasons she did not salute the flag.
Hannah na Elkanah wife, and Elkanah love am well well.		Hannah, a beloved wife of Elkanah, faced a particular trial.
How don take show sey e really love us?		How has shown unselfish love for humans?
How e go be if you dey find work but nobody gree give you work?		Imagine how you would feel if you were turned down by one employer after another.
I know sey dem really like me. So I no want do anything wey go make dem vex. "		I could see that they cared for me, and that made me want to please them. "
If dem see sey wetin the person do no good, dem go use wetin dey Bible handle the matter.		If it has, they will then handle the case according to Scriptural guidelines.
If we no dey carry body up, we go dey forgive other people.		Forgiveness is really a test of humility.
Im husband want make two of dem use that day do something as husband and wife, because e feel sey dem no too dey get time for each other again.		He says that they have not had much time together lately, and he would like them to do something as a couple.
Jesus give this advice so that we go fit use love help our brother.		The aim of Jesus ' counsel was to help a brother in a spirit of love.
Jesus tell im disciples sey: " Make una carry my load for una shoulder. "		Jesus said to his disciples: " Take my yoke upon you. "
Job know wetin want make e do.		Job had outstanding insight into godly principles.
Joshua, wey follow for the people wey dem save from Egypt, help Israel people remember sey: ' Una know with all una mind and una don see am for una life sey nothing for inside all the good things wey una God don promise una wey never happen.		Joshua, who was among those delivered from Egypt, reminded all Israel: " You well know with all your heart and with all your soul that not one word out of all the good promises that your God has spoken to you has failed.
King David self still suffer many things for people hand.		King David was also the victim of many injustices.
Make we de study Bible and take time think about wetin we study. Then we go de do wetin we learn.		We need to study God 's Word and meditate on it and then apply what we learn.
Make we do like Paul. Make we do everything wey we fit do to do wetin want.		May that also be true of us as we strive to be " obedient from the heart. "
Make we still dey do wetin dem tell us to show sey we respect dem.		Our doing that may help them to continue carrying out their duties with joy.
Make we talk about two way to train dem.		Let us now consider two ways to help them.
Na so because we no fit use all our mind serve only and come still pursue money.		That is because both " masters " require exclusive devotion.
Now, I dey like am when I dey read my Bible and I don see how all the book for Bible take agree.		I took to heart the suggestions in this article, and I am making good use of the cutout that was provided. Now I look forward to Bible reading.
Now, I don get plenty book for my language, and e dey sweet me to dey go meeting and convention for American Sign Language.		Now I have a wealth of spiritual food in my own language, and I can enjoy association at the meetings and conventions in ASL.
One sister wey don marry travel from Japan go Turkey. Im name na Atsuko and e dey around 30 years. E talk sey: " Before, I dey always pray make Armageddon quick come.		Atsuko, a married sister in her mid - 30 ' s from Japan, states: " In the past, I always wanted Armageddon to come immediately.
Or wetin e dey gain from person wey get sense?		Can anyone with insight be of benefit to him?
Our meeting wey be Life Wey We Dey Live as Christian and How We Dey Preach dey teach us how to preach and how we go take help other people learn the truth wey dey Bible. - Matthew 28: 19, 20.		The meeting we have midweek can teach us how to preach the good news and how to help others understand the truth from the Bible. - Matthew 28: 19, 20.
So, many people that time, and even the Christian for there, go don know wetin e mean for person to be slave and for person to dey free.		Undoubtedly, slavery and freedom were topics on the minds of the common people, including Christians.
So e just be like sey I dey teach myself first so that I go fit teach am!		In a sense, I did so first to teach myself and then so that I could teach my student!
That time, na secretary work Shebna come dey do.		He was accompanied by two others, one of whom was Shebna, now serving as secretary.
The Sanhedrin be like high court for Jew people.		In context, the Council can only be the Sanhedrin, the Jewish high court and supreme administrative body.
The feather wey dey the cap wey the sisters wear, come dey ' dance ' because of the breeze wey dey blow from Lake Erie.		A soft breeze off Lake Erie ruffled the ladies ' feathered hats.
The iron wey the horse get be like long, sharp knife.		A scythe is a sharp, long, and sometimes curved blade.
The laws and things wey they fit guide us for Bible, fit help us. We " fit use - am teach, show mistake, correct, and show person how e go live the kind life wey God want. "		The laws and principles contained in God 's Word are " beneficial for teaching, for reproving, for setting things straight, for disciplining in righteousness. "
This brother even marry sister wey e language na English!		He married an English - speaking sister!
This one go show sey we love am and still get am for mind. If we know wetin people for different area like, how this one go take help us be better visitor?		And if truly unavoidable circumstances force us to cancel, it would be loving and considerate to let our hosts know as soon as possible.
This topic go make us see why e good for us to dey use all our heart sing. E still talk about wetin we fit do to get better voice when we dey sing.		This article gives us good reasons to sing out joyfully and offers some suggestions for improving our singing voice.
True - true, as long as we continue to preach and " no gree make [ our ] hand rest, " we de help make " people for the whole world " hear the truth about God. ( Matt.		Indeed, as long as we " do not let [ our ] hand rest " from sowing Kingdom seed, we have a valuable share in giving " a witness to all the nations. "
Try to dey read Bible every day, and get time wey you go dey do personal study and Family Worship. - Read Psalm 119: 32.		Try to read a portion of the Bible each day, and make time for personal study as well as regular Family Worship sessions. - Read Psalm 119: 32.
We come go back to United States.		We returned to the United States.
We dey do wetin God talk.		Following direction.
We don learn before sey, because of Jesus sacrifice, take people wey go rule with Jesus as im children.		As we considered earlier, on the basis of the ransom, adopts his spirit - anointed servants as his children.
We fit dey feel sey we better pass other people or sey our work for organization better pass their own. ( Rom.		We might be taking ourselves or our privileges too seriously.
We go try make sure sey we dey go meeting, and dey spend time with people for congregation.		We need to be at the Kingdom Hall in person if at all possible, associating regularly with the Christian congregation.
We self fit start to think like that, because many people dey think like that.		Because many make pursuing a career their main goal in life, a Christian might adopt the same way of thinking.
We waka well well, and we even climb mountains. But e sweet us for body well well as we serve our brothers for all this village as husband and wife!		There we had to climb mountains and do a lot of walking, but what a joy it was to serve the brothers in remote locations as a married couple!
Wetin Jesus do show the kind love wey get for us.		Jesus ' love perfectly reflected the love his Father shows.
Wetin help people for Bible time ready to use their mind wait for?		What helped men and women of old to be willing to wait on?
Wetin we need to remember if we no want sing because of fear?		What should we remember if fear inhibits us from singing out?
Wetin you fit do to help brothers and sisters wey newly come your congregation?		What can you do to help newcomers who have moved into your congregation?
When we do district work, we get chance know many brothers for the country.		For some time, we were also in district work and were able to meet brothers throughout the country.
Which reason you get to praise Jah ( Hallelujah ) for your life? - Ps. 147: 1, ftn.		What reasons do you have to cry out " Hallelujah! " in your own life? - Ps. 147: 1, ftn.
Why e good make we try to dey " think like Jesus "?		Why should we strive to have " the mind of Christ "?
Wicked people dey behave like wicked animal and their character just be like Devil own.		Wicked people exhibit a spirit that seems subhuman, animalistic, even demonic.
[CONTENT_REMOVED]		See paragraphs 10, 11 )
[CONTENT_REMOVED]		See paragraphs 10, 11 )
Mek we come learn some things about dew. And we go learn how our preaching take be like dew, so that we go fit help different different people. - 1 Timothy 2: 3, 4.		Let us learn some things about dew and compare our ministry to it so that we can effectively help " all sorts of people. " - 1 Timothy 2: 3, 4.
If we know where we suppose do reach, we go join hand with our brothers to praise and help other people. - 1 Cor.		Modesty, however, helps all to focus their collective abilities and efforts on bringing glory to God and doing what is best to help others. - 1 Cor.
Wetin dey this Bible verse dey happen for this last days.		Those prophetic words are undergoing fulfillment in these last days.
As if that one no reach, im wife and three people wey sey dem be im friend, come tell am wetin really pain am. - Job 2: 9; 3: 11; 16: 2.		His despair was deepened further by the disheartening words of his wife and of three companions who acted as if they were his friends. - Job 2: 9; 3: 11; 16: 2.
We dey show sey we get faith when we dey do wetin Jesus talk.		Christian faith includes a demonstration of obedience to Jesus ' commands.
As see sey Nineveh people don repent, e change wetin e talk sey e go do.		After observing the Ninevites ' repentant, changed attitude, adjusted his decision.
But the Bible verse dem for paragraph 12, show wetin fit happen if we let our mind dey control wetin we go do.		But the Scriptural passages cited in the preceding paragraph highlight the danger of letting emotions dictate our thinking and actions.
Na serious matter be that; person fit leave now and e fit later die.		That is serious - spiritual death now and physical death in the future.
Many people dey swear to show sey wetin dem talk na true. Dem still dey swear to show sey dem go do wetin dem promise.		An oath is a sworn statement to certify that something is true or a solemn promise that a person will or will not do a certain thing.
Which three better things don give us?		What are three spiritual treasures that has given to us?
People wey dey think well, dey use their mind, no be only their eye and ear.		Perceptive people, therefore, use their mind, not just their eyes and ears.
Moses no gree put eye for the better things wey dey Egypt, e ' choose sey e go suffer with God people instead of to dey enjoy sin for small time. '		Moses turned his back on the treasures of Egypt, " choosing to be mistreated with the people of God rather than to have the temporary enjoyment of sin. "
Another person wey im name na Ethan talk for book of Psalms sey: ' The people wey dey use their voice and sweet mind praise you, dey happy.		Similarly, the psalmist Ethan wrote: " Happy are the people who know the joyful shouting.
You Go Learn From Their Example?		Will You Apply Your Heart to the Things Written?
Nobody know wetin go happen to am that time.		We do not know all the details of what that will mean for us individually.
Show Sey You Get Faith for Wetin Don Promise		Exercise Your Faith in 's Promises
For example, your children fit use Bible explain wetin dey happen to person wey don die?		For example, can your children explain from the Bible what happens at death?
How our condition fit be like Paul own?		How could our situation be similar to that of Paul?
Make we no think sey go do miracle for us.		We do not expect to perform miracles for us.
Jas. 4: 8 ) For this topic, we go talk about two things wey fit make us no use all our power dey serve again. We go see how Bible fit help us dey bear problem.		In this article, we will consider two situations that could cause us to slow down in our service to God and we will discuss how applying Bible principles can help us to cope.
All of us wey get this faith suppose dey thank well well.		All who have it should be deeply grateful.
But, e want make we do wetin we don choose and make the thing agree with wetin Bible talk.		But he expects us to follow through on other decisions that we make based on his guidance.
Remember sey, na the God wey get power pass we dey do things with, no be angel or human being.		Remember, we are walking with Almighty God, not an angel or a man.
And na so e happen.		It was.
After save Israel people from Egypt people hand, e no tey, Amalek people come fight war with dem.		Soon after the Israelites were miraculously released from slavery in Egypt, the Amalekites attacked them.
After some month, the young man come baptize for one assembly.		Some months later, the young man was baptized at an assembly.
After we don read some verse for Bible, make we stop small, think about am, and ask ourself sey: ' Wetin this place dey teach me about?		Many have found it helpful to pause after reading a portion of the Scriptures and consider such questions as the following: ' What does this tell me about?
Ananias and Sapphira fail for that one.		Ananias and Sapphira failed to do that.
And e don promise us sey the message wey dey Bible go last forever.		And he has guaranteed that its message will endure forever.
Another thing be sey, many people dey enter organization and dem need to train dem to do work. Make we do like Jesus and Paul.		The examples of training provided by Jesus and Paul remain valid.
As refugee brothers just come new area, e good make elders quick do wetin dey Organized to Do 's Will, for chapter 8, paragraph 30.		As soon as possible after a refugee arrives, elders should follow the direction in Organized to Do 's Will, chapter 8, paragraph 30.
As we don see how take support and protect im people before, this one suppose make our faith strong and make us trust am.		Seeing how on different occasions supported and protected his faithful servants in the past should build our faith and trust in him today.
But, we fit come dey use this freedom ' as excuse to do bad thing ' if we dey do wetin our body want or if we dey follow the world.		However, our freedom could become " a cover for doing wrong " if we chose to become slaves of our own fleshly desires or if we adopted the disgraceful fads and trends of the world.
But, when e go take happen?		Still, when would that happen?
But Paul no mean sey if person start to ' put mind for the flesh ' the person must die.		Still, Paul did not mean that if someone began to ' set the mind on the flesh ' his end unavoidably would be death.
But im plan change when e read the book wey Bible Students print and when e start to go their meeting.		However, his plans changed when he read the literature of the Bible Students and began to associate with them.
But many of dem no dey happy with their work.		Many, though, are very unhappy with their jobs.
But wetin e good make young people and their papa and mama get for mind?		What should they and their parents bear in mind?
Dem first join congregation wey dey use French language.		First, they joined a French - speaking congregation.
E GET wetin happen for Mexico City for November 1932.		IT IS late November 1932 in Mexico City.
E dey the same religion with the missionary wey e give our family books that time.		He was of the same faith as the missionary who had provided those books for my family.
E fit tell the pikin why e good make e dey hear word.		In teaching him, she may remind Johnny why his conduct was wrong.
E no come dey think sey don leave am.		Did he lose confidence in his God,? No.
E show say the things wey I learn for Bible when l de follow my mama go church every Sunday, no reach anything.		After all those Sundays of churchgoing with my mother, I still had very little Bible knowledge.
E talk how the prophet dem for Bible no fear to tell people about God Kingdom.		Reaching the climax, he asked, " Do you believe that the King of glory has begun his reign? "
E teach me how to use phonograph so that we go fit play short Bible talk make people listen.		He taught me to operate a portable phonograph so that we could play records containing short Bible talks.
E want make we do wetin we promise. That one go make am happy. ( Ps.		He takes our vows seriously, and we must fulfill them in order to have his approval.
Even as e be, e still dey try make e no go dey do the bad things wey e don stop.		Even so, he sees the need to remain on guard against any spiritual relapse.
Even with this one, I no worry; I just relax.		Even so, I felt calm and composed.
Explain. God use im spirit help apostle Paul write one important advice wey dey 2 Corinthians 6: 4.		The apostle Paul was inspired to emphasize the important principle found at 2 Corinthians 6: 4.
For God eye, all of us na the same.		To him, we are all equal.
For example, for one vision, show prophet Ezekiel how im organization for heaven take be like chariot. ( Ezek.		For example, the prophet Ezekiel received a vision in which the heavenly part of God 's organization is represented by a celestial chariot.
For example, when im disciples dey argue about who big pass among dem, Jesus sofri correct dem. - Mark 9: 33 - 37; Luke 22: 24 - 27.		This was evident when he corrected his apostles for showing a selfish, ambitious spirit. - Mark 9: 33 - 37; Luke 22: 24 - 27.
For pikin to get sense, e need to copy the better example of im papa and mama.		A child can become mature by observing his parents and copying their good example.
For plenty areas, brothers de fear say if white and black meet together to worship, people fit come destroy their Kingdom Hall.		In many places, the brothers had good reason to fear that if the two races met together for worship, their Kingdom Hall would be destroyed.
For some place, if dem see person wey dem no know before, one of the first thing wey dem go ask am na, " Which work you dey do? "		In some cultures, when getting to know another person, one of the first questions asked is, " What kind of work do you do? "
For the first topic, we go see how we fit run go meet to help us if we sin.		In the first article, look for ways that sinners can take refuge in today.
For there, we dey enjoy peace and love with our brothers and sisters even though sey we dey this wicked world.		We feel safe and secure despite the wicked world around us.
How the city wey dem build take dey help person wey run go there?		Explain why a fugitive could feel safe, secure, and happy within the city of refuge.
How this arrangement take help the brothers and sisters?		How did the arrangement affect the?
How you go take plan to do full - time work for?		How can you plan to be a full - time Christian minister?
I go run from the temptation like Joseph, or I go fall like David? '		Would I flee like Joseph, or would I give in like David? '
I tell am sey: " No, I no leave my family.		I replied: " No, I didn 't abandon my family.
I thank, and I happy say the people wey I dey with, dey as one. "		Thanks to, I am happy to belong to a united family. "
Instead, e don de use " the sword of the spirit, " or Bible. E de use - am as e de preach about peace to people, no matter their tribe. ( Eph.		The brother in southern Africa has replaced his spear with " the sword of the spirit, " God 's Word, as he preaches a message of peace to his neighbors, whatever their tribe.
Instead, e praise, the Person wey teach am. ( Luke 4: 22 ) When one rich man call Jesus ' Good Teacher, ' Jesus no carry shoulder up.		When a rich man tried to glorify Jesus with the title " Good Teacher, " Jesus modestly replied: " Why do you call me good?
JESUS pray with e disciples for the last supper.		JESUS was concerned about unity during his final supper with his apostles.
do all this things because e really love us.		did this solely for our benefit, not for personal gain.
go comot am.		He will wipe it out.
love people.		is loving.
make animal before e make Adam.		Animals were created before man.
save Noah when the heavy rain destroy people that time. Na so e go still be for our time.		Just as Noah was preserved through the Flood, loyal baptized ones will be preserved when the present wicked world meets its end.
Job come live long life wey e really enjoy. - Job 42: 10, 17.		Job lived " a long and satisfying life. " - Job 42: 10, 17.
Joseph, Rahab, Jesus, and im apostles show sey dem get strong mind.		Joseph, Rahab, Jesus, and the apostles displayed an inner strength that motivated them to perform good works.
King David dey sure sey go support Solomon for this work. But e come dey worry because Solomon ' still young and e never do this kind work before. '		King David was confident of God 's support, but Solomon was " young and inexperienced. "
Make wetin you go talk before you read Bible, help the person put mind for wetin you go read		Introduce texts in a way that increases respect for God 's Word
My papa come see sey this elders from Bethel no be like the pastor dem wey dey do wetin dey make am vex that time.		My father saw how humble these Bethel overseers were in contrast with the clergymen who had disgusted him years earlier.
Na Jesus Christ.		It is Jesus, of course.
Na John the Baptist do the first baptism wey Bible talk about. ( Matt.		We first read of baptism in the Bible in reference to that performed by John the Baptist.
Na papa and mama give the work to train their children. And e want make dem use im way take teach and correct dem. ( Eph.		Christian parents have a precious privilege - that of raising their children " in the discipline and admonition of. "
Na this one make John talk sey: ' This love mean sey, no be we first love God, but na im first love us.		The apostle John stated: " By this the love of God was revealed in our case, that God sent his only - begotten Son into the world so that we might gain life through him.
Na true sey e dey our hand to choose the kind cloth wey we go wear.		We have the freedom to choose what to wear.
One sister, wey im name na Carolina, wey im papa and mama pack go another country, talk sey: ' Since I dey congregation wey dey use the language of the new area wey I dey, meeting dey make sense.		Being in a foreign - language congregation has been fun, " says Carolina, whose parents are immigrants.
One thing na to dey use am everytime, whether for house to house, return visit or Bible study.		A first step is to use it liberally when we preach and teach.
One thing wey dey important well well na your own example wey show sey you get faith.		Something that is very important, of course, is your example of faith.
Open am pass when you dey talk. What if you think sey your voice too loud or e too low?		What should you do if you feel that you have a weak voice or perhaps a voice that is too high - pitched?
Our friends go use their mind help us work. We no go pay dem.		Friends will assist us for sheer satisfaction, not for money.
Pioneer work for this area sweet, no be small! "		I love pioneering in this territory.
Put your mind for wetin you go gain.		Focus on the rewards.
Remember the time wey Peter ask Jesus whether we go forgive ' reach seven times, ' Jesus tell am sey: ' I dey tell you, no be seven times, but make e reach 77 times. '		Recall, too, that when Peter asked whether we should forgive " up to seven times, " Jesus replied: " I say to you, not up to seven times, but up to 77 times. "
So, dem come dey take any one wey dem choose as their wife. '		So they began taking as wives all whom they chose.
So even when law no dey, this things go help the pikin make correct decision more - more, when e de choose friends.		Thus, he can increasingly make wise decisions in choosing his associates.
So make we see some of the things wey Paul tell the brothers for Colossae because e love dem.		Therefore, let us examine some of Paul 's loving warnings found in his letter to the Colossians.
Sometimes, e dey add one or two new one join the ones wey e get.		On occasion, he updates his collection with an article or two.
Tell yourself sey you go ' hold wetin good tight. '		Be determined to " hold fast to what is fine. "
The first question na, " Because Jesus Christ die for you, you don repent from your sin and give your life to do wetin e want? "		The first question is, " On the basis of the sacrifice of Jesus Christ, have you repented of your sins and dedicated yourself to to do his will? "
The people wey dey listen to Peter know this one.		Those listening to Peter knew that.
The sister talk sey: " We like to talk with brothers and sisters before meeting start and when meeting end.		We mingled at the Kingdom Hall before and after meetings, " she says.
Their story dey make us remember wetin apostle Peter talk when e sey: ' But after una don suffer small, the God of all favor go by imself finish una training.		Their life stories call to mind the words of the apostle Peter, who wrote: " After you have suffered a little while, the God of all undeserved kindness. will himself finish your training.
Think am sey one brother dey reason how e fit dey do well for congregation.		Imagine a brother thinking about his future in the congregation.
This brothers and sisters leave wetin dem dey do before to join the work. All of dem na better example of people wey use their freedom take praise!		What a wonderful example of using their God - given freedom to praise and honor, the God of freedom!
To dey praise people and dey tell dem better word wey go make dem strong fit help dem well well!		Such commendation and encouragement can do so much good!
We dey always stay for brothers house.		Accommodations were always in brothers ' homes.
We do everything wey we fit do to make government know why dem suppose allow Witness people serve their God as Bible talk. ( Phil.		A solid record for the right of 's to enjoy freedom of worship was established.
We fit come dey carry body up because many people like our picture or wetin we post. And if dem no follow us or dey check wetin we post, we fit come dey vex.		A Christian could even become puffed up with pride over how many like his postings, even taking offense if they cease to follow him.
We know sey to train pikin no easy, so we no use am play at all. We try help dem love when dem still small.		We took our new assignment as parents very seriously, and we set out to instill the truth in our beautiful girls.
Wetin concern us pass na make our brothers fit get the things wey go continue to make their faith strong.		Providing our brothers with spiritual food was of utmost concern.
Wetin dey make happy with us?		We can be sure that appreciates what?
Wetin dey pain many people wey don grow be sey, when dem dey young, dem no plan their life well. Some no even plan at all.		Sad to say, as adults, many then regret having followed the wrong goals when they were young or, just as frustrating, having had no goals at all.
Wetin show sey no dey tight hand?		How does generously use his material resources?
Wetin we fit learn from wetin happen to Job?		What can we learn from Job 's experience?
When we de read and think deep about the story for Bible, how e fit help us?		Reading and meditating on real - life Bible accounts can help us to do what?
Whether na for night or day, think about how you go take follow the advice wey you read for Bible.		As you reflect on God 's thoughts - day or night - and consider how best to use the Bible 's practical guidance, you will be greatly strengthened.
Who Dey Lead God People Today?		Exerts Power, " Sept.
Why e be sey na good news for people to know sey dem fit pray to?		Why is it good news for people to learn that they can pray to?
Why e dey important make we always dey ready?		Why is keeping on the watch vital?
Why you suppose to dey think about how don take show you sey e good?		Why is it important to think of how you personally have tasted 's goodness?
You no happy sey you dey serve this kind God? So make we dey do like, and run go meet am to help us!		What a privilege to worship a God in whose image we are made, whose qualities we can imitate, and in whom we can take refuge!
Just as una dey always hear word,. make una continue to dey fear God and dey do things wey go save una. " - PHIL.		Just as you have always obeyed,. keep working out your own salvation with fear and trembling. " - PHIL.
Dem no stop to dey use all their time take dey learn wetin the apostles dey teach, to dey gather together. '		They " continued devoting themselves to the teaching of the apostles, to associating together. "
Make una continue to support each other and dey make each other strong. ' - 1 THESS.		Keep encouraging one another and building one another up. " - 1 THESS.
Brothers and sisters for apostle dem time, respect this kind people well well.		Think of congregation elders, circuit overseers, Branch Committee members, and the members of the Governing Body.
don promise say if we pray for help, " the peace wey God de give wey e pass anything wey person fit understand, go protect [ our ] heart and how [ we ] de think through Jesus Christ. " ( Phil.		promises that if we seek his help, " the peace of God that surpasses all understanding will guard [ our ] hearts and [ our ] mental powers by means of Christ Jesus. "
E tell the congregation for Laodicea sey: " I dey correct everybody wey I love, and I dey tell dem if dem dey do bad thing.		He told the congregation in Laodicea: " All those for whom I have affection, I reprove and discipline.
Wetin we go learn for the next topic?		What aspects of molding will we next consider?
David come dey run up and down because Saul want kill am. Sometimes e go run go another country, or e go run go hide for inside cave for wilderness.		As a result, David had to live as a fugitive, at times in a foreign country and at other times in caves in the wilderness.
Brothers and sisters for apostle time still contribute. For example, when the brothers for Judea no get food to eat, other brothers send wetin dem get to help dem. - Acts 11: 27 - 30.		When the brothers in the early Christian congregation were made aware of the need that arose because of a famine, they " determined, each according to what he could afford, to send relief to the brothers living in Judea. " - Acts 11: 27 - 30.
Which ' sin ' Jesus dey talk about for Matthew 18: 15 - 17?		When should we apply the counsel at Matthew 18: 15 - 17?
From the apostle time come reach our time, God Word don help organization for this earth to dey preach the good news for everywhere.		In the first century C.E. and in our day, the Scriptures have helped the earthly part of 's organization to do the far - reaching work of preaching the good news.
E know sey na holy spirit, angels, and Bible really help am fit direct the work wey e come do for this world.		He knew firsthand how much the holy spirit, the angels, and God 's Word helped him to take the lead when he was on earth.
But the thing wey Satan de give de always bring trouble for the end, no matter the gain wey person think say e dey. - Job 21: 7 - 17; Gal.		However, the costs always outweigh any seeming benefits that Satan may offer. - Job 21: 7 - 17; Gal.
Another thing be sey, when we see how take dey answer our prayer, we go love am more more.		In addition, when we discern that answers our prayers, our love for him grows.
Which work our conscience de do?		What purpose does our conscience serve?
Marriage - How E Start and Why E Dey?		Marriage - Its Origin and Purpose
After, this people wey don be Christian ' no stop to use all their time take dey learn wetin the apostles dey teach. '		Thereafter, these new Christians " continued devoting themselves to the teaching of the apostles. "
Anita, wey dey 75 years get that kind fear before.		Anita, now in her mid - 70 ' s, had serious doubts about her abilities.
Around the time wey e go die, Paul write give Timothy sey: ' I dey thank Jesus Christ our Lord, wey give me power, because e believe sey I fit do am, na im make e give me this work. ' ( 1 Tim.		Toward the end of his life, Paul wrote to his fellow worker Timothy: " I am grateful to Christ Jesus our Lord, who imparted power to me, because he considered me faithful by assigning me to a ministry. "
As e be sey wetin dey my mind na to learn the language, wetin I dey read no dey really touch my mind.		Since my mind is mainly involved in an intellectual exercise, my heart is not necessarily touched by the spiritual thoughts I am reading.
As this world dey bad more more, make we get am for mind sey problem wey pass the one wey we dey face now go come.		As this system of things goes " from bad to worse, " we can expect to face increasingly greater difficulties.
Before, some brothers and sisters fit be like the brothers wey Paul talk about for first Corinthians.		Some brothers and sisters may at one time have been like those in Corinth.
Bible dey give us better advice wey fit help us choose wetin go make happy.		God 's Word provides practical guidance that can help us to make wise choices that will bring glory to God.
But apart from this one, dem believe sey the hormone wey this IUD get dey make woman belle no be as e suppose be for pikin to fit stay and grow.		Beyond that mechanism, it is held that the hormone in these IUDs thins the lining of the uterus.
But na wetin e promise dey im mind pass.		That was not the most important consideration, though.
But the main thing be sey, dey give us things wey go make our faith strong. E still dey give us ' peace wey pass anything wey person fit think. ' ( Phil.		Most important, provides spiritual sustenance, giving us " the peace of God that surpasses all understanding. "
But we fit use word wey e fit guide us for Bible, when we face different - different condition.		That is because laws may apply to a specific situation, whereas principles are far broader in application.
But wetin happen that day come make us start to dey near the brothers and sisters for the area. "		But that incident began our greatest delight in forging friendships with the local brothers. "
Do good things for people.		Be hospitable.
E come dey sick, and e later die. As time dey go, Elisha body rotten, na only im bone come remain.		Later, when Elisha 's body had been reduced to mere bones, an enemy band came into the land.
E get when Hezekiah come sick sotey e want die.		Hezekiah later became sick to the point of dying.
E good well well to dey think about how dey bless you now, and how e go bless you for future!		How good it is to reflect on how is rewarding you at this time and how he will reward you in the future!
E no easy, but I de happy when I do - am.		It 's difficult, but I feel much better when I do.
E no too tey after Christ start to rule, na im the first resurrection start.		The first resurrection would take place sometime after " the presence " of Christ began.
E sey na " the protection wey Jesus Christ dey give person wey sin. "		Seeking refuge in him by faith, there is protection.
E still help us see sey the elders fit help us when we sin. And we learn wetin e really mean to repent, and why we fit dey sure sey dey forgive person.		Through this arrangement, God not only emphasized the sacredness of life but also illustrated how the elders assist us, what true repentance involves, and why we can be completely confident of 's forgiveness.
E tell me say: " My pikin, nobody fit understand. "		We 're not meant to understand it. "
Even when dem dey prison, the eight brothers still dey do wetin Bible talk as dem take understand am reach.		Even while in prison, the eight men held steadfastly to the Scriptures as they understood them.
Everybody go see sey na better King. E go clear sey Satan and human being no sabi rule.		The rightfulness of God 's sovereignty will be vindicated and rule by Satan and humans will utterly fail and be removed.
FOR Britain, one young sister classmate tell am sey: " As you know book reach, you still believe sey God dey. "		YOU seem to be too clever to believe in God, " said a fellow student to a young sister in Britain.
For the congregation wey dey Corinth, e get one matter wey bring quarrel. The matter na about meat wey people use do sacrifice wey dem dey sell for market.		Christians in Corinth became divided over the matter of eating meat that may have been offered to idols but was thereafter sold in a meat market.
How Jesus take make God name clean when e dey this world?		How did Jesus contribute to the sanctification of God 's name?
How person fit use im freedom anyhow?		What is one way we can avoid misusing our Christian freedom?
How slave life for Babylon take different from the one wey Israel people live for Egypt before?		How did exile in Babylon differ from the slavery the Israelites had experienced in Egypt?
I come tell myself sey, " as e be sey e no dey respect me, me self no go respect am. " '		I thought, ' She does not show me the respect I deserve, so I am not going to show her respect. ' "
I see note wey they write say: " I give wuna this car back as gift from me.		A note on the windshield read: " You can have your car back as a gift from me.
If we want endure, which example show why e good to learn wetin dey Bible?		Illustrate why we need spiritual food to endure.
dey see am sey we really want go meeting and e no go forget all the things wey we dey do to fit go meeting		notices that we really want to be at the meetings and values all the effort we make to be there
no want make we trust wetin Bible call, ' the power wey horse get ' and the ' strong leg wey man get. '		Neither are we to rely on " the strong legs of a man, " acting as if we or some other human could bring salvation.
organization don give papa and mama different things wey dem go take dey teach their pikin.		s organization has provided a number of tools that parents can use to help their children.
Junia wey we talk about before, talk sey: " E good to dey spend time with people and help dem, even when special thing no dey happen.		Often the help and companionship offered when there is no special anniversary can be very beneficial, " explains Junia.
Make we ask ourself: E get anything at all for this life wey I value pass to serve, whether na position, work, property, family or even my life? E good to think about this matter well well.		This story raises a question that all of us would do well to ponder: Is there anything at all - be it position, career, possessions, family affections, or even our very freedom - to which we give more importance than our relationship with?
Make we see.		Consider a number of suggestions.
Na person go choose whether e go marry or e no go marry. Na im know whether e get the gift wey Jesus talk about.		Whether to stay single or to get married is a matter of determining in one 's heart if one is able to cultivate the gift of singleness.
Na so me and my wife still do.		So we did the same.
Na wetin happen for January 1981, I dey talk about for the beginning of this story.		In January 1981 when Mairambubu was in a bus on her way to a local market, she overheard the conversation mentioned earlier.
No wonder Bible talk sey: ' Everything wey dem write before our time, dem write am for us to learn. This things for Bible dey give us hope, e dey help us endure, and e dey make our mind come down. '		And no wonder, " for all the things that were written beforehand were written for our instruction, so that through our endurance and through the comfort from the Scriptures we might have hope. "
Now, I dey enjoy the work wey I dey do for congregation and I dey see am as big favor. "		Now I really enjoy my assignment and view it as a wonderful privilege! "
Now, they get hope say the future go better and this one de move them to " find peace and keep - am. " - Ps.		Instead, they now have a real hope for the future and are moved to " seek peace and pursue it. " - Ps.
One thing wey you fit do na to greet visitors with smile, and you fit even show them place to sit - down.		Your efforts can include greeting visitors with a friendly smile, perhaps even helping new ones to their seats.
Paul tell the brothers and sisters for Colossae wetin everybody for family need to dey do.		What Scriptural counsel for families did Paul give to Christians in Colossae?
People no love God like before, and many people no dey look God side again.		People today have less and less love for God.
Plan how to spend your money so that you no go spend pass wetin dey your hand *		Prepare a realistic budget *
So no hurry, make you stop, think am well.		Instead of quickly coming up with a response and making a spur - of - the - moment decision, why not stop and think?
Some of dem even go far for organization.		Some even received positions of responsibility in the organization.
Some of dem na, the kind school wey we want go, the kind work wey we want do, and how we want do the work reach. Dem dey push many young people today to do everything wey dem fit do to get admission for better university.		For example, young people in school today are under much pressure to qualify for enrollment in elite institutions of higher education.
Sometimes, e fit be when condition change, or when we hear new thing about the matter. - w17.03, pp.		On occasion, new circumstances or information may require our doing similarly. - w17.03, pp.
That day na Nisan 14, for the year 1513 before Jesus time. Moses talk about that day when e sey: ' The day wey e reach 430 years, that day, na im all people waka comot from Egypt. ' ( Ex.		Referring to Nisan 14, 1513 B.C.E., Moses stated: " At the end of the 430 years, on this very day, all the multitudes of went out of the land of Egypt. "
The drama, wey talk about Timothy, really touch dem. E come make dem want go live for area where dem need more publishers.		That Bible drama about Timothy touched their hearts and deepened their desire to serve where the need for Kingdom workers was greater.
The time wey Hezekiah sick well well, show am one sign wey make am know sey e no go die. For the sign, make shadow waka go back.		When Hezekiah became very sick, God gave him a sign indicating that he would recover - a shadow moving backward.
The water wey dey Kishon, that olden days river, carry dem comot. '		The torrent of Kishon washed them away. "
Their price na times two or three of wetin dem suppose sell.		For example, the Mishnah ( Keritot 1: 7 ) records an occasion in the first century C.E. when the price of a pair of sacrificial pigeons rose to a golden denar.
To show sey e really trust, e come pray make help am.		He expressed full confidence in.
Today, people don show sey dem get faith for God Kingdom wey don start to rule for heaven.		In our present day, 's people have been exercising their faith in God 's established Kingdom.
We still do wetin we fit do to help other people for congregation.		We also reached out to help others at our meetings.
We still go some of the meeting wey the congregation for Tokmok dey do.		We also attended some Christian meetings of the congregation in Tokmok.
Wetin be this things?		What were they?
Wetin come make am go fight Necho?		Why, then, did Josiah go out to fight?
Wetin fit help papa know which language congregation im family go join?		How can family heads decide which language congregation the family will attend?
Wetin that man do come make other people do the same thing.		That set off a chain of events that was hard to believe.
Wetin the elder talk help me well well. " - Matt.		The elder 's words made a huge difference. " - Matt.
Wetin we fit learn from the poor woman example?		Why is the example of the needy widow encouraging?
When I dey around nine years, my papa come collect some book wey talk about the lie lie wey fake religion dey teach people.		When I was about nine years old, our father, who disliked religious hypocrisy, obtained some books exposing false religion.
When e dey 21 years, e come comot for house go pioneer.		Bob agreed, and he left home to pioneer at age 21.
Which other people we go respect and praise, and why?		What humans are deserving of honor, and why?
You fit plan to dey preach more?		Could you set the goal of sharing in the ministry more often?
You fit tell dem to join you go preaching?		Could you invite them to accompany you in the ministry?
You fit win the fight, if you trust sey God go give you the power to win the fight. - 2 Cor.		You can do so by completely trusting in God 's ability to strengthen you. - 2 Cor.
wey dey Awake!		with their children.
GA " mean The Golden Age - new magazine wey dem go dey use preach.		GA " stood for The Golden Age - a new magazine for the ministry.
Paul like the work well well. Na im make e do everything to make sure sey e help people to be Jesus disciple.		Yes, Paul 's love for the ministry moved him to work hard at making disciples.
Apostle Paul warn Christians about wetin fit happen if dem dey do wetin their body want.		This world ruled by Satan fosters " the desire of the flesh and the desire of the eyes and the showy display of one 's means of life. "
Around 50 C.E., Paul visit Philippi for the second time wey e travel go preach.		While on his second missionary tour, about 50 C.E., Paul visited Philippi.
All this lie fit make dem kill Paul.		Those charges could lead to his being sentenced to death.
Papa no go talk sey, ' For our country, na woman dey train pikin. '		A baptized Christian father will not think, ' Well, in our country the women teach the children. '
This thing wey Paul talk dey make our mind come down.		Paul 's comforting words are based on two fundamental truths.
As people wey dey follow Jesus example, e good make we dey try to " make peace with everybody. "		As followers of Christ, we work to " be peaceable with all men. "
Wetin you learn, from the way David take praise, wey fit help you for your preaching?		Why do you find David 's spirit in praising valuable as you engage in the ministry?
E good make we think about how dem wait reach, why dem ready to use their mind wait, and how take bless dem.		As we meditate on their examples, it is good for us to remember how long they had to wait, why they were willing to wait, and what blessings resulted from their patience.
As e be sey sin dey our body, the things wey we get for mind to do fit change. But own no be like that. Bible talk sey: ' The thing wey get for mind to do no fit change; wetin e want do go dey forever. '		The ideas and plans of imperfect humans come and go, but the psalmist fittingly reminds us: " The decisions of will stand forever; the thoughts of his heart are from generation to generation. "
Story About People Life - I Try Well Well to Follow Good Example		Life Story - Endeavoring to Mirror Fine Examples
promise to join this two stick together so that dem go be one for im hand.		promised to join these two sticks and make them one in his hand.
And if the pikin don sabi how to ride the bicycle well well, dem go leave am to ride am.		But as the child finds his balance, the parent cautiously lets go for a few moments at a time.
And pray make give you im holy spirit.		And pray for holy spirit.
And the language wey dem take born pikin fit no really be the language wey e sabi pass or wey dey touch am pass.		And a child 's native language will not necessarily remain the language of his mind or even of his heart.
Another thing be sey, some things wey happen for Solomon time dey show how things go be when Jesus dey rule. - 1 Ki.		What is more, aspects of Solomon 's reign point forward to the rule of the Messiah. - 1 Ki.
Apart from preaching, which other way we fit make our light shine?		In addition to engaging in the ministry, in what other ways can we let our light shine?
At last, everybody go come dey serve God the way e want!		Finally, true worship will be fully restored!
Because Bible tell us wetin like and wetin e no like.		His mind on such matters is made clear in his Word.
Because of that one, e get some kind work wey no go reach im hand for congregation.		He would therefore not qualify for responsibilities or special privileges in the congregation.
But e good make we ask ourself, ' My love dey real? I dey love people because of wetin I want gain from dem? Na pretend I dey pretend? '		However, we do well to ask ourselves, ' Is my love always genuine, not tainted by selfishness or deception? '
But if we no use sense, our work fit come be number one thing for life instead of work.		If we are not careful, however, secular work could interfere with our worship.
But that one no be true!		How far such reasoning is from the truth!
But why Abigail de always try to talk true?		Why, then, does she always try to tell the truth?
Dem come carry me go one hospital wey dey the camp to check whether my bone break. From there, dem drag me go my tent.		They then took me to the camp infirmary to confirm that my bones were not broken and dragged me back to my tent.
Dem dey go meet people for house and anywhere wey dem fit see people. ( Matt.		They went to the people wherever they could be found - in public areas and in private homes.
Do everything wey you fit do to support work.		Have as full a share as possible in supporting true worship.
E get anything wey this one teach us?		Can we see in this a lesson that we can apply?
E go allow dem learn about wetin e get for mind and how dem fit get life wey no go end.		Our loving heavenly Father will bring them back to life and give them an opportunity to learn about his purpose and to gain everlasting life.
E sey: ' " Make you use all your mind, all your body and all your sense love wey be your God. "		He said: " ' You must love your God with your whole heart and with your whole soul and with your whole mind. '
E write sey e thank organization for wetin dem dey always teach us; the things dey come the right time and na wetin we need.		She writes: " I want to thank you for always feeding us with just what we need and at the right time.
For country wey this kind thing dey normal, some people fit talk sey no matter how e be, person go ' drop something '.		Where the practices described above are widespread, some feel that it is impossible to avoid giving tips.
For example, God want am ' to preach good news to poor people and tell blind people sey dem go see again. '		He knew that, among other things, God wanted him " to declare good news to the poor. and a recovery of sight to the blind. "
For example, e get any pikin wey give better answer to question for meeting, or wey handle part for meeting?		Did a youth give a heartfelt, well - thought - out comment or share in a part on the midweek meeting program?
For where! Na only for inside church their pastor dey preach. Dem no dey go meet people.		For the most part, church members have been happy to leave any preaching to the paid clergy.
GOD get organization?		DOES God have an organization?
Graham story make me see sey, if person carry body down, and allow correct am, go just dey bless am! "		His example taught me that when a person humbles himself before God by accepting discipline, blessings just pour out! "
How take dey use Bible mold us today?		God 's Word can mold us as we read it purposefully, meditate on it, and ask to help us apply it.
How Peter learn to treat everybody the same way?		How did Peter make progress in showing impartiality to everyone?
How e be sey Eli no correct im pikin dem?		In what sense did Eli fail to discipline his sons?
How some of the first people wey be Christian take God favor play?		How did some early Christians abuse God 's undeserved kindness?
How strong mind take help one sister do work?		How did courage help a young sister reach her goals?
How we go take show sey we like wetin Jesus do?		In what ways do we show our gratitude for the ransom?
I be slave girl for!		s slave girl!
I come dey think: " Wetin I go tell am wey e no know before?		I wondered: ' What can I tell him that he does not already know?
I come start to pioneer when I dey 19 years.		Finally, I started pioneering when I was 19.
If better suffer come, the person no go support God again.		According to the Devil, humans would be far happier and better off ruling themselves.
If papa and mama dey put school and other things before, e go make their pikin think sey this things better pass their friendship with.		For a parent to place high priority on secular pursuits could confuse a child and jeopardize his best interests.
If you be papa or mama, you fit dey ask yourself sey: ' My pikin don really ready to baptize?		If you are a parent, you may have asked yourself: ' Is my child really ready to get baptized?
Im wife try to talk to am, but e no hear.		His wife tried to calm him but without success.
Instead, do wetin good, get faith, love and peace. " - 2 Tim.		Paul exhorted Timothy: " Flee from youthful desires, but pursue righteousness, faith, love, peace. " - 2 Tim.
Blessing Better Pass Money, July		Line leading to Messiah tied to right of firstborn?
tell the elders for Israel make dem dey judge matter well like am.		commissioned Israelite elders to imitate his high standard of justice.
Jephthah promise something before e go fight war with Ammon people and e do wetin e promise. Ammon people don too suffer Israel people and e dey Jephthah mind to really win dem for this war.		Jephthah faithfully kept the promise that he had made to when going out to war against the Ammonites, who had been terrorizing God 's people.
Jesus talk sey: ' But una no dey follow the things wey matter pass for the Law: una no dey judge matter well, una no dey pity for people, and una no dey serve God well. ' ( Matt.		He added: " But you have disregarded the weightier matters of the Law, namely, justice and mercy and faithfulness. "
Joseph suffer well well for people hand.		He was the victim of some outrageous injustices.
Make we dey always thank am for the better things wey e don give us. "		We should thank him at every opportunity for the gifts he has given us.
Many people today want make sure sey dem buy wetin dey reign like, cloth, phone, or other things.		Many today are obsessed with the latest fashions, electronic gadgets, and so forth.
Matthew 4: 5 and Luke 4: 9 fit mean sey na vision Satan take carry Jesus go there or na one high place for the temple Jesus stand. So we no fit talk how Satan take do am. - w16.03 - E, pp.		We cannot say for sure. Matthew 4: 5 and Luke 4: 9 could mean that Jesus was taken there in a vision or that he stood on some high place in the temple precinct. - w16.03, pp.
Mouth no fit talk how belle dey sweet papa and mama if their pikin dey among people wey want baptize.		Do not Christian parents delight to see their children among the other new disciples getting baptized?
Na Babylon be ' the land wey dey north ' wey Zechariah see for vision.		Their responsibility is to protect 's people, particularly from " the land of the north, " Babylon.
Na me dey wash the cloths for the house and na me dey go carry fire wood wey dem go use cook.		My assignment in the home was to help with the laundry and to obtain wood for cooking meals.
Na you my King, I don take as the place wey I fit run hide when wahala dey. '		I have made the Sovereign Lord my refuge. "
Nothing dey sweet us pass when we see people dey happy because dem don know. "		Seeing the happiness of people when they accept the truth is a great source of joy.
One serious warning dey for the letter wey Paul write give some Christians for im time.		Paul 's words to fellow Christians contain a warning.
Our ' brothers wey dey everywhere for this world ' love us. This one no be big blessing? ( 1 Pet.		What a blessing it is to be loved by ' the entire association of our brothers in the world '!
Problem dey mek us suffer. But no be only that one.		When we have trials, there is more involved than our suffering.
SONG: 7, 3		SONGS: 7, 3
So, make you dey use all your heart sing! - Ps.		Yes, make a joyful sound! - Ps.
So, we fit no quick know sey wetin person talk na lie.		How dangerous is propaganda?
So make you ask yourself: ' You dey think about wetin you read for Bible? You dey let am reach your mind?		Do you too meditate on God 's Word, allowing it to settle into your innermost parts?
Story about Sister Padgett life dey October 1, 1995, Watchtower pp. 19 - 24.		The Watchtower of October 1, 1995, pp. 19 - 24, contains Sister Padgett 's life story.
The next week, I start study with Brother Hardaker.		I started studying with Brother Hardaker the very next week.
The quarrel wey this two sisters get fit don cause big problem for the congregation.		The problem that existed between Euodia and Syntyche could have disrupted the peace of the whole congregation.
The sister from Australia wey we talk about before, talk say e change the way e de think because of the plenty good things wey e learn from Bible.		The floodgates of true knowledge were opened to me, " says the Australian sister mentioned earlier.
This one come make am start to dey study Bible and dey go meeting with dem.		Do you think that this mother felt that answered her heartfelt prayer?
This one go don help Israel people see sey still dey remember dem, even if dem don forget how e take save dem.		Though they had forgotten 's saving acts, God still remembered his people.
This one go happen after the first part of great tribulation, and before Armageddon start. Jesus go take anointed ones wey remain for earth go heaven.		It will happen after the initial part of the great tribulation has passed but before the battle of Armageddon.
This one na one thing we fit do if we want show say we de respect them and we love them.		That would be part of showing them honor and love.
Toi talk sey: ' E no easy for me. I know sey I no come late, so the woman no suppose shout for me like that. '		Nonetheless, Toi apologized again and told the woman that she understood the suffering she was experiencing.
We dey thank well well for this favor wey e don show us. So make we dey use wetin we get serve God and help people.		As grateful recipients of 's kindness, we owe it to him and to our neighbor to use our gifts to honor God and benefit our fellow man.
We fit use wetin we don read for 1 Timothy 3: 2 - 7, take help our Bible student and other people. That verse show how elders for congregation take different from pastor for church.		We could use the list of qualifications for Christian overseers to help interested ones or Bible students to see ways that elders among 's differ from the clergy of Christendom.
We learn sey make we do wetin we fit do to help our brothers or sisters when dem dey wahala. - Col.		Would we want to leave our brothers out in the cold, so to speak, if there is something that we can do to relieve their suffering? - Col.
Wetin Adam choose and wetin happen?		What choice did Adam have to make, and with what consequences?
Wetin go help us no do amebo or aproko if we feel sey dem no treat us well for congregation?		What will protect us from the trap of negative speech even if we experience injustice in the congregation?
Wetin happen to David?		Describe the situation that David faced.
Wetin happen to one brother, and why e good make we be like am?		What experience did one brother have, and why are our reactions in similar situations important?
Wetin help dem?		Note what helped them.
Wetin person wey don give im life and wey don baptize, suppose know?		What must a dedicated, baptized Christian realize?
Wetin we contribute dey help organization take care of people wey be missionary, special pioneer, or circuit overseer.		Our donations support missionaries, special pioneers, and those in the circuit work.
Wetin we need to get for mind when we dey study with person?		What should be our goal when we conduct a Bible study?
When dem nail Jesus for pole, e tell apostle John make e take care of Mary. If Joseph still dey alive that time, you think sey Jesus for tell John to take care of im mama? - John 19: 26, 27.		When on the torture stake, Jesus entrusted Mary to the care of the apostle John, which Jesus would not likely have done had Joseph still been alive. - John 19: 26, 27.
When that time come, go really bless the ' people wey dey use their mind wait for am. ' - Isa. 30: 18; ftn.		This will result in unimaginable blessings for those who are " eagerly waiting for him. " - Isa. 30: 18; ftn.
When you follow the thing wey the doctor talk, you see say e work.		After trying the program, you find that it works!
Why people no dey play with life?		Why is safety important to God 's people?
Why papa and mama example good, and how one husband and wife take show am?		Why is good parental example important, and how has one couple set such an example for their girls?
and " If una follow am, una go die finish! "		and " Do not let them lead you into disaster! "
Una no know the day wey una Lord dey come. " - MATT.		You do not know on what day your Lord is coming. " - MATT.
For this kind serious matter wey concern how we dey worship, na person go use im mind choose wetin e go do.		Hence, in this important matter related to worship, each Christian needed to make a conscientious decision.
God de feel for people because e love them.		God 's love is not reflected merely in sentiment.
God no dey fail. '		Second, " God is faithful. "
Make we try well well make we no spoil the peace wey dey keep us together.		Then, put forth earnest effort to promote " the uniting bond of peace. "
But Daniel no ever carry shoulder or think sey other people must do wetin e talk.		In fact, it was while Daniel was still a young man that counted him worthy of being mentioned as an example of righteousness, along with Noah and Job.
If we do wetin no like, make we beg am make e forgive us.		If on the basis of this priceless provision we repentantly seek 's forgiveness when we err, we can have the confidence that our friendship with him is still intact.
When dem pursue person comot, dem no dey follow am talk or do anything with am.		So Joseph hesitated to confess his faith in Jesus openly.
Like that farmer, make we learn to dey patient.		Like the farmer, we need to wait patiently.
For the next topic, we go talk other reason why we suppose support only. We go still see other things wey we fit do to use all our mind support am as King.		The next article will consider further why 's sovereignty is deserving of your wholehearted support and how you can uphold it.
Even though sey we take plenty hour pray about matter wey dey worry us, no dey tire to hear our prayer.		Even if a person spends hours praying over a matter of deep concern, does not keep track of the time.
And anytime wey we try do wetin want, we dey happy sey Bible still dey change our life.		Having made a genuine effort in this regard, we feel all the more satisfied when we realize that the Bible is still changing our life.
How servant suppose treat other people?		How do servants of need to treat others?
How Joseph take control imself when e dey with im brothers?		How did Joseph restrain his emotions in dealing with his brothers?
Wetin be the thing wey dey Jephthah mind?		What was of greatest importance to Jephthah?
This thing wey Rehoboam do show say e don get sense pass when e just begin rule.		In this, Rehoboam showed a measure of insight that he did not display earlier.
The better thing be say, for some time, e do things wey talk.		More important, for a time he adhered to 's laws.
If dem put hand, dem go be like Esau wey no value holy things.		If they did that, they would be like Esau.
Joseph example fit help us today.		Joseph 's example should help us.
Timothy example go help us know the answer.		In answer, let us consider the example of Timothy.
This one go still make am bless us and our faith go dey strong.		This, in turn, strengthens our faith in our heavenly Father.
Get am for mind sey and Jesus dey happy with you and dem go bless you if you no leave dem.		Find joy in knowing that and Jesus are pleased with you and that they will reward your faithful course.
As Jesus don promise, dey bless us now with brothers and sisters wey dey all the congregation for this world; dem love us like sey we come from one family.		As Jesus promised, rewards us now by letting us be part of a loving family of spiritual brothers and sisters, a family that is international in scope.
And we go do everything wey we fit do to ' pull the old person comot with all im character. ' Make we no do anything wey go comot us from side. - Col.		And we work hard to " strip off the old personality with its practices, " guarding against anything that could weaken us spiritually. - Col.
John 2: 13 - 17; 18: 3 - 5 ) Jesus example really help dem.		That example helped them to build courage.
Again, Jesus talk about wetin make.		Jesus again turns our attention to 's handiwork.
As we no fit know wetin dey people mind, make we no dey judge dem. E go show sey we get sense and we love dem. - Read James 4: 12.		Since we cannot read hearts, it is both wise and loving to avoid jumping to conclusions about other people 's motives. - Read James 4: 12.
Because Jephthah pikin want serve, e leave the normal thing wey e for like to do, wey be to marry and to born pikin		Jephthah 's daughter sacrificed her natural desires for a husband and children in order to serve
Bible no tell us how people take dey light fire for olden days.		No mention is made in the Scriptures of the method used to light fires in ancient times.
Bible talk sey for Noah time, katakata full everywhere and people dey put hand for sex wey no clean for God eye. ( Gen.		Noah lived in a world that was " filled with violence " and immorality.
Brothers and sisters wey them de preach for public place with their book stand, don see say to smile good.		That has also proved true when brothers and sisters engage in public witnessing using a literature cart.
But, if we think well before we talk, e go help us check the kind thing wey we want talk, we go sofri talk am, and wetin we talk go help other people.		However, by meditating or thinking before we speak, we will be able to collect our thoughts, respond mildly, and encourage a favorable reaction.
But e get some things wey fit help us know how apostle Paul be.		However, there are some indications of Paul 's appearance.
But no matter the place wey we come from, na almost the same thing greeting de do.		Customs and words used may differ from place to place, but the basics of a greeting are much the same.
David fit dey think sey Solomon no go fit direct that kind big work. Why?		David might have concluded that Solomon was not qualified to oversee such an important project.
Dem come continue to build the temple even though government stop the work. Jew people think sey dem no go fit build the temple finish.		Confident of divine backing, the Jews quickly swing into action, resuming their building work despite the ban.
Dem dey sure sey na use Arthur answer their prayer.		Those brothers were convinced that had answered their prayer in a most interesting way.
Dem need something wey go encourage dem.		Loyal in Mexico needed a spiritual boost.
Dem no want make their enemy dem or anything wey go cause wahala enter the country.		They watch for intrusions into their territory and for enemies who pose a threat to national security.
Dew dey cool body.		Dew is refreshing.
E dey put ear for our prayer.		He is receptive to our prayers.
E dey your mind like that?		Do you have such a desire?
E fit be sey your person die, you dey sick well well, to take care of your family na problem because things hard; or e fit be sey people dey give you problem so that you go stop to serve.		Well, maybe you are trying to cope with the death of a loved one, deal with a serious illness, provide for your family in these hard economic times, or you may be facing opposition.
E fit still free us from fake religion and the things wey dem dey do. ( Rom.		What a glorious freedom that is!
E get one time wey apostle Peter ask Jesus sey: ' We don leave everything follow you; wetin we go come gain? '		The apostle Peter once asked Jesus: " We have left all things and followed you; what, then, will there be for us? "
E just be like person wey dey inside that city wey we talk about. E no dey fear sey the person wey get the right to kill am go come kill am for there.		Once inside the city of refuge, a fugitive no longer needed to look over his shoulder for the avenger of blood.
E no easy to train your children if your husband or wife no dey serve.		Training children can be especially challenging if you have an unbelieving mate.
E talk for Bible sey: ' I be, the person wey dey show love wey no dey fail.		He declares: " I am, the One showing loyal love, justice, and righteousness in the earth, for in these things I take delight. "
E talk sey: " I come dey study Bible well well, and I no stop. I learn many things from Bible, and I understand wetin I dey learn.		He says: " I studied the Bible and studied and studied some more, and the pieces started to fit together.
For some years, we visit different different congregation around New York City, and dem do many convention for Yankee Stadium.		For some years we were in the New York City area, and a number of the conventions were held at Yankee Stadium.
Hannah tell Eli sey: ' Na because of this pikin I pray, and give me wetin I beg am.		She took Samuel to High Priest Eli at the tabernacle in Shiloh and said: " It was for this boy that I prayed, and granted my petition that I asked of him.
Hear the story of one pioneer wey we go call Lucy.		Take the case of a pioneer, whom we will call Lucy.
How go take help us when we sin? And why e good to allow help us? Some people don do wetin bad well well before.		What means can use to help us recover when we have committed a sin, and why should we take advantage of the provision?
How Job take know?		How Job came to know.
How Wycliffe Bible take help people?		What was the impact of the Wycliffe Bible?
How dem take dey know person wey God spirit dey direct?		What identifies a spiritual person?
I dey try to help people wey dey my congregation, and people wey I dey meet for preaching? '		Do I reach out to help others, both in the congregation and in the field ministry? '
I get one senior brother and im name na Bob.		I had one older brother, Bob.
If God promise sey e go resurrect person, and many many years don pass wey e talk am, e fit still happen?		Is there any indication, however, that a resurrection could take place long after it was promised?
If person no fit born pikin or im person die, life fit no sweet am. But im mind fit still come down.		Even if we feel a deep void in our life - whether from childlessness or from the death of a loved one - we can still gain comfort.
If we dey advise and train dem like that, dem go ready to go back go check people wey want learn and dem go fit study person even if you no follow dem.		With such training and encouragement, less experienced publishers will surely want to cultivate the interest of others and conduct Bible studies on their own.
If we dey pray to, dey study Bible, and dey think about wetin we learn, God go give us im holy spirit wey go help us get joy. Another thing wey go help us na to dey put mind for the better things wey dey do for us.		So despite living in stressful times, we can develop true and lasting joy as we acquire holy spirit by means of prayer, study, and meditation on 's Word.
If we like wetin we dey learn from Bible, e go make us know sey na better thing do for us to let us answer im name, and tell people about im Kingdom for this last days.		Has our love for Bible truth moved us to recognize the unique privilege we have to bear God 's name and to proclaim his Kingdom in this time of the end?
want make we copy the example of this people wey get faith and wey obey am. - Read Ezekiel 14: 12 - 14.		Yet, they held on to their integrity, becoming models of faith and obedience in the eyes of God. - Read Ezekiel 14: 12 - 14.
Jephthah and im pikin no go forget wetin happen to Israel people that time. - Read Psalm 106: 34 - 39.		Many of the Israelites started to imitate the Canaanites, who worshipped false gods and lived immoral lives. - Read Psalm 106: 34 - 39.
Make the kind cloth wey we dey wear no be the type wey fit make person vex or trowey face.		Nobody should feel uncomfortable or forced to look the other way when seeing how we are dressed.
Make we no ever leave and make we dey do wetin e tell us. This one go show sey we dey value the freedom wey e don give us. - 1 Cor.		Let us heed this warning example and always treasure our gift of free will by continuing to stick close to and obeying his righteous requirements. - 1 Cor.
Mek we no stop to go meeting or to follow our brothers and sisters for congregation dey do things together.		Never stop going to Christian meetings or spending time with the congregation.
Na God holy spirit dey help us get faith if we let am work for our life. ( Gal.		Christian faith is the result of God 's holy spirit working on a receptive heart.
Na power dey come from.		is the Source of dynamic energy.
Na im Moses come carry Aaron and Hur go on top one rock wey near where dem dey fight, make dem fit see how the fight be.		In the meantime, Moses took Aaron and Hur to a nearby hillside from which they could see the battlefield.
Na that time e do miracle wey make Peter catch plenty fish.		For instance, Jesus taught a crowd, using a boat as a platform.
Na this one make Bible sey people wey dey follow Jesus " no go live for theirself again, but for the person wey die for dem, wey don come back to life. " - 2 Cor.		Jesus ' disciples must " live no longer for themselves, but for him who died for them and was raised up. " - 2 Cor.
Na wetin Moses do help dem fit win this fight.		Moses put into action a plan that proved to be the key to their success.
No forget sey the brother or sister na still friend. ( Ps.		Remember, he is one of 's friends.
No matter the kind problem, if you get friend wey you fit talk to about your problem and wey fit help you, you no go happy?		Whatever the problem, would you not appreciate having someone with whom you could share your anxieties and who could provide help when you needed it?
Noah, Daniel, and Job live for different time and the problem wey dem face different. But all of dem sofri bear the wahala wey dem face.		Although Noah, Daniel, and Job lived at different times and under very different circumstances, they endured the challenges they faced.
Nobody dey guide the place, and life don tire im people.		The city was almost defenseless, and his fellow Jews were very discouraged.
ONE brother wey im name na Allen, * pack go one new area wey far well well from im former place.		I WAS nervous about moving here, " says Allen. * " I didn 't know if I would make friends or be accepted. "
One new book wey talk about religion for United States, talk sey: ' People wey dey lead for church dey change wetin dem dey teach everytime so that e go match wetin their members and other people like and believe. '		A recent book on religion in the United States notes: " Christian leaders have regularly revised their teachings to match the beliefs and opinions gaining support among their members and in the larger society. "
One of dem come dey talk anyhow to the other person.		One took to scolding the other.
Our belle really sweet us. For 2011, our branch office for Britain and Ireland come join together. Dem come send us go Bethel for London. Our life come change.		In 2011 our lives changed completely when the Britain and Ireland branches were merged and we were assigned to London Bethel.
Satan sabi say one day Jesus go rule this earth.		Satan surely knew that Jesus had the hope of eventually ruling mankind.
See wetin one brother talk about the matter. E sey: " If you dey preach from house to house with, na you go just dey talk or you go let talk? "		One brother expressed the matter this way, " If you were preaching from house to house with himself, would you do all the talking or would you let him speak? "
Serve Well Even If You Dey Another Language Congregation, Oct.		Settle Differences in a Spirit of Love, May
Some brothers for the congregation think sey: ' Since idol no get life, person fit eat the meat if im mind no go judge am. '		Some reasoned: ' Since an idol is nothing, the meat can be eaten in good conscience. '
Some pioneer wey no fit buy motor, use their bicycle take travel go.		Pioneers who could not afford a vehicle headed into the outback on bicycle.
The island long reach eight miles ( 13 km ) and e wide reach 1.5 miles ( 2.5km ).		The island is just eight miles ( 13 km ) long and 1.5 miles ( 2.5 km ) across at its widest point.
The kind sound wey aeroplane dey make if e dey pass and the one wey bird dey make when e dey sing, which one you like pass?		And how would you compare the sound of an airplane to the singing of a bird?
The last part for that verse suppose touch all of us one by one because our Papa for heaven talk sey: ' Me, go quick do am by myself when the time reach. '		The last part of that prophecy should affect all Christians personally, for our heavenly Father says: " I myself, will speed it up in its own time. "
The next thing wey Zechariah see na two women wey dey fly for up. Dem get wing wey strong like big bird own.		Next on the scene appear two women who have strong wings like those of a stork.
The people accept make I de help Gloria do part of the work so that e go finish quick.		I was permitted to help her at one place so that she could get done in half the time.
The title of the talk na, " Hereafter. " O 'Connor still come the talk wey dem do for Dublin, and e carry one pastor follow body.		O 'Connor showed up in Dublin with yet another minister asking questions, but the audience applauded the Scriptural replies.
This kind things fit make some people want find answers to questions about life. E fit even be questions wey they no want talk about before.		When such events take place, some distressed individuals may ask questions about the meaning of life that at one time they ignored.
This one fit make am hard for some old people to learn the new way we take dey do things.		Some older ones may find it hard to keep pace with these advances.
This one go show sey dem dey join hand with papa and mama wey dey try to help their children baptize. E get one sister wey don pioneer pass 70 years.		One sister who served as a pioneer for more than 70 years recalled the impact of her conversation with Brother Charles T.
This one no make happy.		was not pleased.
This person na Jesus, and na special thing for John to baptize God Son. ( Matt.		John had the unique privilege of baptizing Jesus, the perfect human Son of God.
Wetin dey do when e want help us?		What comes first when extends help to us?
Wetin all of us for congregation fit do to worship?		How can all in the congregation directly share in worshipping?
Wetin e mean to put eye for big big things?		What is materialism?
Wetin go help us get the kind mind wey get for people wey come from another place?		What will help us to reflect 's concern for people from a foreign background?
Wetin we go do if we no want make bad thing win us?		How do we avoid being conquered by the evil?
When Nehemiah be governor for Jerusalem, how e take arrange people to use song praise?		Describe the special presentation of singing during Nehemiah 's rule as governor in Jerusalem.
When Paul write the letter, dem arrest am for house for Rome.		In fact, when Paul wrote to those brothers, he was under house arrest in Rome.
When our family de pray before we chop, Daniel go join e hand, shake e head up and down, and talk say " Amen! "		When our family prayed before meals, he would clasp his tiny hands, nod his head, and say a hearty " Amen! "
Which advice Bible give wey fit help us control how we dey feel?		What counsel does the Bible give about controlling our emotions?
Which kind love Bible talk sey people wey no be God friend go get?		What misdirected kind of love characterizes people who are alienated from God?
Which one of dem you go like copy, and why?		Which of the four kings would you like to imitate, and why?
Why Barzillai no gree do the work wey David give am?		Modesty helped Barzillai to make a reasonable decision.
You dey put the preaching work for your plan every week, to show sey you value am?		Do you view your ministry as a treasure and manifest that in your weekly schedule?
Noah, Daniel, and Job. [ go only fit save theirself ] because dem dey do wetin good. " - EZEK.		Noah, Daniel, and Job. would be able to save only themselves because of their righteousness. " - EZEK.
Answer wey person sofri give dey make person stop to dey vex, but word wey person no sofri talk dey make person quick vex. ' - Prov.		A mild answer turns away rage, but a harsh word stirs up anger. " - Prov.
dey let us do wetin we want.		First, gave humans the gift of free will.
The book of Job na one place for Bible wey help us know why dey allow us suffer.		Thanks in part to the book of Job, we know why God permits suffering.
Hezekiah come prepare wait for dem.		sent an angel to destroy 185,000 of Sennacherib 's soldiers in one night.
Today, we self ready to do anything to make sure sey nothing fit shake our love for Jesus.		Peter, whose name means " A Piece of Rock, " indeed lived up to his name, for he displayed rocklike qualities.
[CONTENT_REMOVED]		See paragraph 11 )
You agree sey wetin Paul talk fit help everybody for your family?		No doubt you will agree that applying Paul 's inspired counsel will still benefit husbands, wives, and children.
True true, we fit talk to for prayer because e don show us favor.		Free access to in prayer is indeed a wonderful expression of his undeserved kindness.
So make we dey pray for holy spirit and dey allow am to ' direct ' us. This one go come help us to dey show love more more.		If we pray for holy spirit and endeavor to " keep walking by spirit, " our actions will become more and more loving.
The love wey we get for our brothers go help us fit bear anything wey dem do us, wey pain us.		Love for our brothers helps us to endure their imperfections.
For example, before many women marry, na wetin their papa and mama talk dem dey follow.		Yet, under imperfect conditions, getting married and setting up a new household can strain family relationships.
How the prophet dem take talk about one special leader wey go come?		How did the prophets indicate that a unique leader was coming?
Wetin we go talk about for this topic?		What will we discuss in this article?
Wetin you go get for mind sey you no go do?		What are you determined to do?
Bible reading dey part of your plan?		Have you made that a personal goal?
When we want choose, make we let how dey think and feel about matter direct us.		He is also concerned that we do not stumble others or disturb them by our decisions.
How to Pull the Old Character Trowey		How We Strip Off and Keep Off the Old Personality
The woman come tell everything wey dey worry am for mind as Bible sey make we do. ( Ps.		The young woman poured out her heart to, as the Scriptures tell us to do.
After, im wife self come die and na only 43 years the wife dey that time.		Later, his beloved wife, who was only 43 years old, also died.
After Jesus talk about wetin fit end marriage, e come talk about people wey never marry, ' wey get the gift ' to dey like that.		After indicating that among true Christians there is no basis for divorce except sexual immorality, Jesus spoke of " those who have the gift " of living a single life.
After e don waka for all this area and don talk many things wey go make the people wey dey there strong, e come enter Greece. '		After going through those regions and giving many words of encouragement to the ones there, he arrived in Greece. "
And wetin come happen? Na Emperor Constantine be the person wey dey rule Rome for the year 313 C.E. People for Rome no dey serve God.		In 313 C.E., this apostate form of Christianity was granted legal recognition by the pagan Roman Emperor Constantine.
Another thing wey fit cause problem be sey, dem no train dem the same way and no be the same way dem dey feel about things; or e fit be money matter, their in - law and how to train their pikin.		Differences in emotional nature and upbringing may become issues, or disagreements may arise regarding money, in - laws, and child - rearing.
Anytime I travel go other city, I dey always try to preach to deaf people.		When visiting other cities, I have always made it a point to witness to the deaf.
As take dey use all im mind forgive una, make una still dey do like that. '		Just as freely forgave you, you must also do the same. "
BETWEEN 62 and 64 C.E., apostle Peter write letter to brothers and sisters wey be " strangers, wey scatter for everywhere for Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia, and Bithynia. "		SOMETIME between the years 62 and 64 C.E., the apostle Peter wrote to " the temporary residents scattered about in Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia, and Bithynia. "
Because Jesus die for us, dey forgive the sin of people wey show sey dem get faith for the sacrifice.		On the basis of Christ 's sacrifice, forgives the sins of those who exercise faith.
Because no matter how person dey wahala imself reach, e no fit add join im life.		Because needlessly worrying about our daily needs will not help us to live longer.
But, na which kind person go bless?		But to whom will God grant his favor and blessing?
But even with that one, some fit choose sey dem no go keep beard beard.		Even so, some brothers might decide not to wear a beard.
But no be people we de fight, na Satan and the demons.		Of course, the war we fight is spiritual, not literal.
But the question be sey: Who get the right to give people law wey correct, wey dem need, and wey make sense?		The question, then, is: Who has the right to determine what limits are just, necessary, and reasonable?
But the thing be sey, na only the ' better slave wey dem fit trust, ' Jesus don give the work to dey teach us.		However, Jesus has appointed the ' faithful slave ' to be the only channel for dispensing spiritual food.
But who go dey control the angels like army?		But who takes the lead among 's heavenly army?
But why e good make we know the reason?		Why is it important for us to consider those reasons?
Check BIBLE TEACHINGS > BIBLE STUDY TOOLS ( for English ).		Look under BIBLE TEACHINGS > BIBLE STUDY TOOLS.
E GET one sister wey im name na Susi. E don nearly reach one year wey im pikin die.		FOR almost a year after the death of our son, we felt deep and excruciating pain, " said Susi.
E be like sey this verse dey talk sey as Jacob collect the " right as firstborn, " e come dey among the people wey Messiah go come from. - Matt.		This appeared to suggest that when Jacob gained the " rights as firstborn, " he also came in line to be an ancestor to the Messiah. - Matt.
E come arrange how human being fit take worship am because of Jesus sacrifice. This one be like big temple wey eye no fit see [ the great spiritual temple ]. ( Heb.		He established the great spiritual temple, the arrangement for humans to approach him in worship on the basis of Jesus ' sacrifice.
E come give dem juice drink. E give dem brush to clean their suit. E still use rubber fetch water go give dem, and e give dem towel.		She poured them some juice and brought them a clothes brush, a bowl of water, and towels.
E do wetin e promise. E don support me, help me, and e don use im " right hand wey good " take hold me. - Isa.		True to his promise, he has sustained me, fortified me, and taken hold of me with his " right hand of righteousness. " - Isa.
E get one time wey e invite me come im house for small chop chop.		Once he invited me to his home for refreshments.
E get other example wey talk about how people take respect government as Bible talk and the better things wey happen.		You may recall other examples of the good that can come about when manifest appropriate respect for public officials, rendering them the honor that the Bible says Christians should give them.
E get some question wey una go need to talk about many times. "		You may need to revisit some subjects regularly. "
E go let another person go talk to David about wetin e do?		Would he let someone else bring up the matter to the king?
E good make we know sey, wetin dey John 5: 4 wey talk sey na one angel dey shake the water, no dey some old paper wey dem write Bible put for Greek language. For example, e no dey Codex Sinaiticus wey dem write around 400 years after dem born Jesus.		It is noteworthy that John 5: 4, which said that an angel disturbed the water, is not found in highly regarded ancient Greek manuscripts, such as the fourth - century Codex Sinaiticus.
E still help dem see sey dem no suppose to dey carry wetin dem do theirself for mind, so that peace go dey the congregation.		Do we truly have a valid reason not to put up with each other and go on serving peacefully? '
E want make we put money first for our life, and the Kingdom of God second. - Matt.		He wants us to seek material benefits first - to have it all and have it now. Satan urges us to seek the Kingdom second. - Matt.
Enjoyment na bad thing? Explain.		What is a reasonable view of pleasures?
Etta dey respect the brothers wey dey direct things for the farm even though sey e sabi the work well well.		Though Etta played a key role in the canning process, she was careful to set a fine example of respect for the brothers in oversight on the farm.
Even people wey don dey serve God tey tey still need word wey go make dem strong.		Even experienced servants of God need encouragement.
Even when im bicycle tire spoil, e no stop. E know sey go help am.		When his bicycle tires wore out, he pressed on, confident that would guide him.
For example, e fit use government to stop our preaching work.		For example, he can maneuver governments into banning our preaching work.
For example, how this advice fit help you if you dey make friend for internet?		For example, how does this apply to social networking?
For example, person fit tell im oga or people wey dey work with am sey e go quick close for work or sey e no go come the next day because e want go take ' treatment. '		For instance, a man tells his boss or fellow workers that he cannot be at work the next day or that he must leave early because he has a " medical " appointment.
For example, your oga for work fit dey ask you to do overtime for evening or weekend. And this one fit be the time wey una suppose use do family worship, go preaching, or even go meeting for Kingdom Hall. Wetin you go do?		For example, your employer may regularly ask you to work overtime on evenings and weekends - times that you have set aside for family worship, field service, and Christian meetings.
How take do am?		What did tell him?
How Jesus example take help im apostles?		How did Jesus ' courage affect the apostles?
How all of us fit help congregation dey as one, and help other people make they shine their light?		How can all promote unity in the congregation and help others to let their light shine?
How we fit copy the example of Paul?		How can we imitate Paul?
I Go Help You, ' July		I Will Help You, " July
I dey think whether I fit learn another language and stay for another country.		I worried about having to learn a new language and having to adjust to a new environment.
I don dey fit pray to now and I no think sey anything dey block my prayer again. "		Now, I feel that I can approach without anything being in the way. "
If we dey pray, dey study Bible and dey settle down think about wetin we don learn, e go still help us learn how to control ourself.		Also important to cultivating self - discipline are heartfelt prayer, Bible study, and meditation.
If we do like that, we go fit dey manage our problem for life.		Or we could allow the weight of our personal trials to eclipse that great issue.
If we no do like that, dem fit come dey make friend with family people or their country people wey no dey serve.		Otherwise, they may be drawn to unbelieving relatives or compatriots who can relate to their culture and experiences.
Instead wey we go dey select the character wey we go change, make we try let the things wey we dey learn from Bible help us know the right thing to change.		We must do more than embark on a program of self - improvement.
Joshua na another person wey tell wetin give am mind. God choose am to carry im people enter Promise Land.		Later, Joshua had the daunting task of settling God 's people in the Promised Land.
Joy.		The gift of joy.
Just as better food dey make person body strong, na so our friendship with go dey strong if we dey always think like Jesus.		Just as nourishing food strengthens the physical body, feeding our mind on Christ 's thinking fortifies our spirituality.
Make we explain the kind love wey Paul talk about for 2 Timothy 3: 2 - 4.		Let us contrast godly love with the love described at 2 Timothy 3: 2 - 4.
Make we use the small time wey remain before Memorial day take dey think about the kind question wey we fit use, wey go touch our Bible student and other people to follow us do this Memorial.		So in these last few days before the Memorial, it is timely that we think about specific questions that we can use to stimulate the interest of our Bible students and other sincere individuals in this important event.
Many people dey get problem today because dem no dey fit control theirself.		Indeed, many of the problems that people face today stem from a lack of self - control.
Mouth no go fit talk the kind blessing wey you go get! - Acts 1: 8.		One thing is sure: Having an increased share in spreading the good news " to the most distant part of the earth " will bring you rich blessings beyond compare! - Acts 1: 8.
Na im make we need to dey read Bible, think about wetin we don read, and pray make give us holy spirit. ( Luke 11: 13; Gal.		Our efforts should include such activities as daily Bible reading, meditation on the Scriptures, and prayer for holy spirit.
Na wetin all of us want be that. For that one to happen, we need to know how this matter serious reach. Make we talk about am.		To be integrity - keepers, we need to fix our eyes on that big issue and comprehend how important it really is.
No wonder give us better advice for Bible wey go help us continue to do wetin correct if brother or sister for congregation no treat us well. - Ps.		For good reason, has provided practical advice in his Word to assist us to maintain our integrity, even if we experience wrongs at the hands of fellow believers. - Ps.
Olinda talk say: " Some bus drivers de greet us from their bus and some shout say: ' Wuna well done! '		Adds Olinda with a smile: " The bus drivers waved to us and some shouted from their driver 's seat, ' Good job! '
Papa for family today know sey na dem don give the work to take care of their family. ( 1 Tim.		Family heads today recognize that they have a Scriptural responsibility to provide for their family 's material needs.
Romans chapter 8 show sey people wey dey do ' the things wey the flesh want ' and people wey dey do ' the things wey the spirit want ' dey different.		Romans chapter 8 speaks of those who walk " according to the flesh " in contrast with those who walk " according to the spirit. "
Satan dey try use this world to mek our faith weak. E fit even mek us lazy or tire to serve.		Satan 's world tries to weaken our faith and can make us feel stressed and discouraged.
See as this publishers dey happy as dem dey preach to person wey like the message for Vigad Square for Budapest, Hungary		These happy publishers are sharing the Kingdom message with an appreciative listener at Vigad Square in Budapest, Hungary
Shares, Stocks and Bonds: When person buy shares or e get stocks and bonds wey dey bring money for am, e fit contribute am as gift to Witness branch office for im country, or e go write agreement sey make dem give am to the branch office when e die.		Stocks and Bonds: Stocks and bonds donated to an entity used by 's as an outright gift or by means of a written agreement to transfer on death.
So, when we sing with person wey no happy, e fit make im mind come down. - Col.		He wrote: " Keep on teaching and encouraging one another with psalms, praises to God, spiritual songs sung with gratitude, singing in your hearts to. " - Col.
So e know wetin go really help us endure.		So he knows exactly what we need in order to endure.
Some of dem dey Bethel, some dey construction work, some na circuit overseer, some dey teach for the different different school wey organization get, some na special pioneer, missionary, Assembly Hall servant, and Bible school facility servant.		Some perform Bethel service, others engage in construction or in circuit work, serve as field instructors or special pioneers or missionaries or as Assembly Hall or Bible school facility servants.
Sometimes, na this one dey cause problem, and we go come dey vex for each other.		At times, that contributed to misunderstandings and hurt feelings.
Still check " Question Box " wey dey Our Kingdom Ministry, April 2011, p.		See also the " Question Box " in Our Kingdom Ministry, April 2011, p.
That woman show sey e use all im mind trust. And e know sey if e do own first, go give am the things wey e need.		That faithful woman demonstrated wholehearted trust in, knowing that if she put spiritual things first, he would provide for her physical needs.
The man come tell the brother sey im and im wife really need wetin go make their mind come down.		The man mentioned how much he and his wife needed comfort, and he now showed interest in the Bible 's message.
The old man sey e be prophet.		The man claimed to be a prophet of.
The second one wey be like the first one na: " Make you love your neighbor as you love yourself. " '		The second, like it, is this: ' You must love your neighbor as yourself. ' "
The truth be sey, e no hard to encourage person. E fit be small thing like to smile when you dey greet person.		It does not take much to be a source of encouragement - perhaps no more than a warm smile when greeting someone.
This one make Adam different from animals, because animal life na one way.		This set Adam apart from the animals, since they live according to instinct.
This one mean sey you need to dey do things wey no go scatter you and as friend. And make you no leave no matter the problem wey you face.		Those words indicate that you need to consider how you will maintain your friendship with and remain faithful to him despite any challenges.
This sister talk sey this kind people no dey happy at all. E sey the best plan wey person fit get na to serve God and help other people to come serve am.		Serving God and trying to contribute in some small way to helping people spiritually are truly noble and lasting goals. "
This thing wey dem do am surprise us!		We were stunned!
This topic go answer that question. Young people go come see sey, to make happy, dem need to put mind for wetin dem want do for.		This article answers that question by encouraging youths to focus their life on their desire to please.
We do all the meeting. And for some time, na only two of us dey come.		We held every meeting, but for some time, only the two of us were in attendance.
We get am for our website to help you think about wetin you believe, and why you believe am.		If you are not sure, take the time to look for them.
We still see as our Bible student dem dey do well. This one make all of us love each other like one family.		This, along with seeing our Bible students make progress, created a strong bond with our spiritual family in Ireland.
Wetin God tell Adam and Eve, and why?		What specific command did God give our first human parents, and for what purpose?
Wetin e learn really touch am!		The effect was amazing!
Wetin go help us get the kind faith wey Daniel get?		How can we cultivate faith like that of Daniel?
Wetin make dem different?		What was the contrast?
Wetin we fit learn from that example?		Can we learn from that example?
Wetin we learn from wetin happen to apostle Paul for Philippi?		What lessons do we learn from what happened to the apostle Paul in Philippi?
When I go house, I come check the Watchtower and Awake!		When I went home and checked the Watchtower and Awake!
When Jesus dey preach, people wey no like am talk bad things about am. But Jesus no do dem back.		Throughout his earthly ministry, Jesus endured unjust criticism from religious opposers.
When Jesus dey this world, e sey: ' Nobody know that day and the time, even the angel dem for heaven or the Son no know, but na only the Father know. ' ( Matt.		When on earth, Jesus said: " Concerning that day and hour nobody knows, neither the angels of the heavens nor the Son, but only the Father. "
When person dey open eye or dey hide do bad things, e fit still make am no follow Bible advice.		Making a practice of sin, perhaps even committing secret sins, can also make one unresponsive to divine counsel.
You be elder for congregation or circuit overseer and you feel sey your work don too much for you?		Are you a congregation elder or a circuit overseer who feels overwhelmed by your many responsibilities?
You fit see their story for JW Broadcasting.		You can see and hear them relate their experiences on JW Broadcasting.
because person wey get sense no dey ask this kind question. ' - Eccl.		for it is not out of wisdom that you ask this. " - Eccl.
for person to really believe wetin dem teach am?		be persuaded to believe?
Make una no stop to dey allow God spirit dey direct una. ' - GAL.		Keep walking by spirit. " - GAL.
The fruit wey the spirit dey bear na self - control. ' - GAL.		The fruitage of the spirit is. self - control. " - GAL.
Try visit any country wey their publisher no too plenty, so that you go know how life be for there.		Visit a country where the need for Kingdom preachers is greater to get a taste of what life there is like.
When una hear God Word, una believe am as e really be; as God word. ' - 1 THESS.		When you received God 's word,. you accepted it. just as it truthfully is, as the word of God. " - 1 THESS.
We need to carry body down and ( 2 ) ready to forgive people for congregation wey no treat us well.		We will also learn how a willingness to forgive when we observe injustices in the congregation can reflect 's view of justice.
E still warn dem make dem no allow their freedom be like stone wey fit fall person wey im mind dey quick judge am. ( 1 Cor.		Next, he warned them not to allow their " right to choose " to become " a stumbling block to those who [ were ] weak. "
Jesus talk sey ' go give holy spirit to people wey beg am. '		Jesus promised that the Father in heaven would eagerly " give holy spirit to those asking him. "
So, for the last night, e tell them make them de endure as them de preach. ( Matt.		So on that last evening, he encouraged them to endure in the work they had started.
Make we no stop to use everything wey don give us.		May we continue to make use of all the spiritual provisions available to us.
So, anytime wey dem give us new work for congregation, make we pray about am and think well about wetin dey use Bible and im organization teach us.		So any time we take on new responsibilities, we need to reflect prayerfully on whatever tells us through his Word and his organization.
If your work be like that, make people know you as Witness and make you dey behave well.		If you find yourself in such a situation, identify yourself as one of 's, act in a respectable manner, and remember that flirting can have disastrous consequences.
Why give Zechariah this kind vision?		Why did give these striking visions to his prophet?
Give example of how our work fit affect people wey them de watch us.		Illustrate how our sowing may affect those who observe us.
So, Paul dey talk sey Christians wey dey do the things wey the flesh want different from Christians wey dey do the things wey the spirit want.		Thus, Paul was contrasting Christians who walked according to the flesh with Christians who walked according to the spirit.
When we believe sey love us and dey care for us, we go fit handle any problem wey we dey face now, or wey dey come for front.		That confidence in 's loving support will help us to cope with further tests of faith.
Papa and Mama - Help Your Children Get Life		Parents - Help Your Children Become " Wise for Salvation "
God go bless Jesus disciples with things wey better pass anything wey dem don leave.		His disciples would gain blessings far in excess of any personal sacrifices they might make.
You see am like that?		Do you agree with it?
Abraham dey sure sey no go ever ' kill good person join wicked person. '		Such an act was " unthinkable " to Abraham.
Abraham gain anything for the good wey e do?		Did he lose out because of his generosity?
All the years wey I be circuit overseer, I no get motor.		Through all my years of service, I have never owned a car.
All this things dey help us put mind for wetin God promise us. But we dey get problem with our brothers and sisters sometimes.		Nevertheless, at times, misunderstandings may lead to some tension among members of the congregation.
Allen wey we talk about before, don dey new congregation pass one year.		Allen, mentioned in the introduction, has been in his new congregation for over a year.
And sey if e chop am, e go get the sense to know and to choose wetin good and wetin bad. Eve believe Satan.		She did not show respect for her husband 's headship by asking him about the matter.
And the one wey better pass be sey, we go learn how to praise, the God wey dey give freedom.		Above all, we will learn how to honor, the God of true freedom.
And wetin I fit learn from Bible about greeting? '		And what can God 's Word teach me about greetings? '
As dem dey grow, dem come dey complain about the family study.		As they got older, they complained at times about having the family study.
As our King wey dey heaven, e never stop to help us and to show sey wetin dey pain us dey pain am too.		You do not have to be in Jesus ' physical presence to benefit.
Because where una keep wetin una value, na there una mind go still dey. ' - Luke 12: 33, 34.		For where your treasure is, there your hearts will be also. " - Luke 12: 33, 34.
Bible tell us sey make we " continue to dey change " how we dey think. ( Eph.		We are told to " continue to be made new in [ our ] dominant mental attitude. "
But things no happen as e think. Joseph comot fear for mind go meet Pilate.		As it turned out, the face - to - face meeting was not as difficult as Joseph may have imagined.
But what if the man sperm meet the woman egg?		Yet, what if ovulation does occur and an egg is fertilized?
E get another person for the congregation wey John talk about im good character.		Unlike Diotrephes, a Christian named Demetrius is mentioned by John as a good example.
E no stop to ask to direct am, na im make am dey read God Law everytime.		He kept walking with God.
E no tey, dem send letter give us sey make we go Portugal. My wife shock!		Shortly thereafter, we received a letter inviting us to serve in Portugal.
E put the matter for hand.		Indeed, " she prayed for a long time before. "
E remember wetin I tell am about wetin happen to me for prison. Na that one help am endure.		What I had told him about my experiences in prison helped him to endure.
E sey Rome army enter one place wey dem dey call Tower of Antonia wey near Jerusalem fence. From there, dem come get the chance to fit burn the temple and to scatter Jerusalem reach ground.		From there, the Romans rushed the temple and set fire to it, resulting in the finale of the greatest tribulation that Jerusalem and the Jewish nation had ever experienced.
E surprise, and ask me say, ' Why you come here? '		Taken by surprise, she asked me, ' What is the reason for your visit? '
E talk sey: " The way I take carry shoulder up bad sotey I come dey blame for wetin happen.		He acknowledges: " My pride was hurt, and I began to blame for what was happening.
E treat us like im children and that one come make us dey do well for the work.		His fatherly interest in us was spiritually stabilizing.
Even their pikin suppose do the same thing, because their papa and mama suppose use any chance wey dem get take teach dem. - Deut.		Young ones too were to follow this way of complete devotion because the parents were to teach the children at every opportunity. - Deut.
For Ephesians 2: 7, Bible talk sey God go show im favor for ' the new world wey dey come. '		At Ephesians 2: 7, we read that God 's demonstration of undeserved kindness would occur " in the coming systems of things. "
For all the years wey im and im wife serve, dem face different different problem.		Over the decades that he and his wife served, they experienced ups and downs.
For example, Deuteronomy 24: 14, 15 talk sey: ' If poor person come work for you, make you no play am wayo, whether na your brother or na stranger wey dey una land.		Deuteronomy 24: 14, 15 states: " You must not defraud a hired worker who is in need and poor, whether one of your brothers or a foreign resident in your land.
For example, even though sey Jew people wey dey Lystra give dem problem, dem still go back so that dem go fit help new disciple get strong faith.		For instance, even though they had faced fanatic opposition in Lystra, they returned there in order to encourage new disciples to remain in the faith.
For example, we write the Watchtower wey we dey give people wey no be Witness the way dem go take sabi wetin dey inside, and everything wey we write for inside na from Bible.		For example, the public edition of The Watchtower discusses Scriptural topics in terms that a non - Witness reader can understand.
For one week, we fit write how many hours we take do things wey concern work. Things like, meeting, preaching, personal Bible study and family worship.		We could select a week and keep a record of the number of hours we spend on spiritual activities, such as attending meetings, sharing in the field ministry, and engaging in personal and family Bible study.
For the June 1 Watchtower wey dem print that year, one question for inside na: ' People wey never stop to take snuff, smoke cigar and igbo fit baptize? '		The June 1 issue of The Watchtower asked the question: " Do. persons who have not broken their addiction to tobacco qualify for baptism? "
For this ' last days, ' many people no get the kind character wey go make marriage work. For the next topic, we go learn some things for Bible wey fit help people wey don marry to manage their problem.		The following article will discuss Scriptural points that can help married Christians face the challenges of living deep in " the last days " when so many men and women have traits that work against success in marriage.
For this topic, we go talk about who we go respect and praise, and why.		So we might well ask, Whom should we honor, and why is such honor merited?
From the time wey Jesus start to preach, e let God Law direct am.		From the beginning of his ministry, Jesus allowed the Scriptures to direct him.
From wetin God talk about dressing for Bible, e clear sey God no dey happy with the kind cloth wey dey make man be like woman, or the one wey dey make woman be like man.		From God 's stated direction about clothing, we clearly see that God is not pleased with styles of dress that feminize men, that make women look like men, or that make it hard to see the difference between men and women.
Haykanush and im husband come tell the family sey na wetin dem dey learn from Bible help dem do am.		Haykanush and her husband explained that their honesty resulted from what they were learning from the Bible.
How e take concern us?		How are we personally reacting to that acceleration?
How fake religion take start to dey control correct Christians after all the apostles don die?		In what sense did God 's people come into Babylonian captivity from the second century C.E. onward?
How young people fit use their power for God work?		How can young people use their strength in Kingdom service?
I no go ever forget the time wey my husband tell me sey e want follow me go one of our meeting.		I will never forget when my husband told me that he wanted to come to a meeting with me.
If you dey shout for am to let am know sey na you be the man of the house, na that one go make am dey respect you?		Would you move her to show you more respect if you were to shout at her to show her who is boss?
Instead, e talk sey: " Many young people no know anything about Witness.		Rather than give too much thought to her fears, Olivia reasoned: " A lot of young people don 't know anything about 's.
Israel people dey use this festival worship. And tell dem sey make dem no come with empty hand. ( Deut.		As part of their worship at those festivals, the Israelites were not to " appear before empty - handed. "
JESUS apostle stand for Mount of Olives dey look Jesus, wey be their master and friend, as e dey go up until cloud cover am.		JESUS ' apostles stood on the Mount of Olives, gazing at the sky. They had just seen their master and friend, Jesus, lifted up and obscured by a cloud.
answer im prayer. E send one angel wey kill 185,000 Assyria soldier. - Isa.		God answered his prayer by sending an angel to strike down 185,000 Assyrians. - Isa.
go protect us make the curse wey dem talk for the vision, no reach our side.		Rather, will gladly bless us.
no like am if person dey carry shoulder.		certainly detests pride.
John Wycliffe and people wey follow am want make Bible reach everybody hand.		John Wycliffe and others desired to make God 's Word available to everyone.
Make dem pray make give dem holy spirit, and make dem try get the character wey holy spirit dey help person get. If dem do this one, dem go be blessing for congregation. " - Ps.		If they pray for God 's spirit and cultivate its fruitage, they will be a real blessing to their brothers. " - Ps.
Make we ask ourself sey: ' I like enjoyment pass meeting and preaching? I ready to leave enjoyment because of work?		We do well to ask ourselves: ' Do meetings and field service take second place to entertainment?
Make we still put am for mind sey, no be only language dey make pikin like something.		Furthermore, a child 's heart is influenced by more than just language.
Many people wey dey pioneer still dey work.		Full - time ministers generally need to earn a living.
Many people wey we invite come Memorial sabi this verse well well.		Many whom we invite to the Memorial will know this verse by heart.
Me and am marry for January 1949. We plan sey we go dey full - time service as we fit.		We married in January 1949 with the goal of staying in full - time service as long as possible.
My two pikin fit learn from me and now, I dey help do many things for congregation.		I am a good example for my two sons, and I have qualified for privileges in the congregation.
Na God spirit go help us, no be our power.		Not sheer willpower, but God 's spirit.
Na so we go still do, make we dey think about how we go take use wetin we dey learn help ourself.		Similarly, we should strive to nourish our heart with spiritual food that fills our personal needs.
Na two Witness family study Bible with us, and among all of us, 11 don baptize as Witness.		Two Witness families studied with us, and 11 of us children grew up to be 's.
No let Satan deceive you!		Do not be deceived!
No let wetin I want happen, but make e be wetin you want. '		Nevertheless, let, not my will, but yours take place. "
Nowadays, many things don change for the different different school wey take dey teach im people.		We have recently seen a number of significant adjustments in the field of theocratic education.
Prophet Isaiah and Jeremiah don first talk am sey e go happen like this. - Isa.		This reconciliation had also been foretold by the prophets Isaiah and Jeremiah. - Isa.
So, dem dey do the bad things wey their mind and body want, whether na for sex matter or other matter.		In the main, these are ones who follow their cravings, impulses, and passions, whether sexual or otherwise.
So, e fit be sey John want make Gaius get mind to continue to treat visitors well. Anyhow e be, e still tell Gaius wetin go make am no stop.		Was the apostle worried that Gaius might hesitate because Diotrephes was attempting to throw hospitable Christians out of the congregation?
So as dem dey go, dem fit dey think about Jerusalem and dey talk about how e be.		They had heard how beautiful the city of Jerusalem once was.
Solomon no be David firstborn. But the Messiah still come from im family. - 2 Sam.		Similarly, the next link was Solomon, though he was not David 's firstborn. - 2 Sam.
Some of the helmet get handle so that the soldier fit hold - am for hand.		Some helmets had a handle so that a soldier could carry it in his hand.
Still get am for mind sey dey care for you.		Pray to in full faith, knowing that he cares for you.
That time, people de burn the place wey white and black de meet to worship.		Such things did happen.
The brochure Charitable Planning to Benefit Kingdom Service Worldwide, don dey to help people wey like to support the work wey Witness dey do for the whole world.		To assist individuals desiring to benefit the worldwide work of 's through some form of charitable giving, a brochure entitled Charitable Planning to Benefit Kingdom Service Worldwide has been prepared in English and Spanish.
The number of language wey get the New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures don increase.		The New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures is published in many more languages.
The one wey be servant fit get hope sey the husband or wife wey comot, go come back with the mind to make the marriage work. E fit even come be servant.		And the Christian can hope that the departing mate will return with a willingness to work together in preserving the marriage and will eventually become a fellow believer.
The one wey better pass be sey, we don know and e dey treat us as im pikin. - Jas.		Above all, we have come to know and now experience his fatherly love. - Jas.
The people wey God draw near imself and im pikin, na people wey no be anything for human being eye.		He drew to himself and his Son many individuals who from a human standpoint might have seemed to be undesirable.
The pikin come dey sing, dey dance because im papa don win the fight.		His great victory made her sing and dance with joy.
The priest vex, e stone John with Bible, come shout for am sey: ' You don be Satan!		The priest soon lost his temper and threw a Bible at him, shouting: " You 've become Satan!
The tax people and other people wey I dey follow do business, come know me as person wey no dey do wayo. "		Among tax auditors and others with whom I do business, I now have the reputation of being an honest man. "
The third thing wey go make person get better plan when e dey young, na because many things dey to choose from.		The third reason for setting goals early in life has to do with decision - making.
This mistake go make no use Peter do Im work again?		Would Peter lose precious privileges because of his mistake?
This one dey help dem make new friend with the brothers and sisters for the place wey dem dey.		Doing so helps them to bond with the local brothers and to adjust to a different culture.
This thing wey Satan do fit surprise dem and make dem vex.		The Devil 's challenge no doubt aroused indignation, anger, and contempt among heavenly creatures loyal to God.
Today, Daniel dey serve with clean mind. E never too tey when dem make am ministerial servant again.		Today, Daniel has a clean conscience, and he was recently appointed as a ministerial servant.
Use Bible explain wetin happen from 1914 go reach 1919.		Describe from the Scriptures what took place from 1914 to 1919.
We dey preach to praise.		Our objective when we preach is to honor.
We dey sure sey e no put hand for the bad things wey e talk about for 1 Corinthians 6: 9 - 11.		We can be sure that he was not sharing in the gross wrongs mentioned at 1 Corinthians 6: 9 - 11.
We fit tire when we don close, but we happy?		We returned tired, maybe, but joyful?
We still dey go preaching everytime. '		We also shared regularly in the field ministry. "
Wetin be the ' sword ' wey Jesus talk sey e go bring?		What is the " sword " that Jesus said he would bring?
Wetin dey help us fit do this work?		But how is it possible for all of this to happen?
Wetin go happen to people wey take God correction and people wey no gree take am?		What does the future hold for those who accept God 's discipline and for those who refuse to accept it?
Wetin we fit learn from Isaiah 40: 26?		What lesson can we learn from Isaiah 40: 26?
When Michael see sey wetin e talk about the other brother no good, e no happy at all.		Michael felt devastated when he realized how inconsiderate and unkind he had been.
When we love people, e fit make dem want follow us serve.		The love we show for others draws people to our heavenly Father.
Why e bad to do amebo or aproko?		Why is negative gossip so dangerous?
Why e good make we dey always pray?		Why is prayer vital for a baptized Christian?
You fit dey see Peter as person wey dey talk im mind, and e no dey waste time do something.		You may think of him as outspoken and impulsive.
The people wey dey build no want " the Messiah ( Check paragraph 7 )		The builders rejected " the Messiah ( See paragraph 7 )
The God wey dey make our mind come down, dey help us anytime wey we dey for wahala. ' - 2 COR.		The God of all comfort. comforts us in all our trials. " - 2 COR.
When something dey worry me for mind, you make my mind come down, and you make me happy. ' - Ps.		When anxieties overwhelmed me, you [ ] comforted and soothed me. " - Ps.
So, because God love us, e dey forgive our sin, we get better hope, and we fit get life we no go end.		Because of God 's love, we can obtain forgiveness, hope, and life.
But if our faith strong, the world no go fit control us.		Yet, keeping spiritually strong will do much to offset this world 's negative influences.
This world wey Satan dey control dey make people do ' wetin their body and their eye want, ' and dem dey like to ' show wetin dem get. '		Rather than direct love to the Creator, people are " lovers of themselves. "
And how other people fit help you?		And how can others help?
Till e die, e serve well as elder for where dem dey call Ottawa, for Ontario.		He too came in the truth and served faithfully as an elder in Ottawa, Ontario, up until his death.
All of dem wey get strong faith die before Jesus Christ come open way for people to go heaven. ( Gal.		Those faithful ones died before the promised " offspring, " Jesus Christ, opened the way to heavenly life.
All of dem ' believe sey ' God go bring that ' pikin ' wey e don promise, wey go comot the wahala wey Satan cause and wey go make wetin get for mind happen.		All of them had an " assured expectation " that God would raise up the promised " offspring " to crush Satan 's rebellion and to fulfill 's original purpose.
To dey overdo things no dey end well at all.		Presumptuous acts do not turn out well.
Jesus give im apostle dem holy spirit after God resurrect am. Na the work wey Jesus give dem come dey their mind no be who big pass. - Acts 5: 42.		After Jesus was resurrected and the holy spirit was poured out, the apostles focused, not on position or prominence, but on the work he had given them to do. - Acts 5: 42.
Na Jew people for apostle time this thing first happen to. Dem talk sey dem be God people but dem come stop to love God.		In the first century, the Jews, who claimed to be God 's people, allowed their love for God to grow cold.
Na wetin we suppose get be that.		That is what we deserve.
E easy for Hannah to do wetin e promise?		How easy was it for Hannah to pay her vow?
Give example wey show sey understand wetin we dey face?		Illustrate how compassionate is in helping imperfect humans.
Which person example for Bible we fit copy?		What Bible example can we imitate?
So ask yourself, ' I know well like Noah, Daniel, and Job? '		So ask yourself, ' Do I know as well as Noah, Daniel, and Job did? '
As we dey wait, we go dey careful, so that we no go start to complain sey too slow.		So we " endure fully with patience and joy. "
How we go take show sey wetin we dey wait for dey real and sey we believe the things wey we never see wey dey Bible?		How do we prove that our hope is alive and that we believe in the unseen things spoken of in God 's Word?
When give our brothers or sisters work for congregation, make we dey happy with dem.		We will rejoice with them when they receive privileges.
Why e be like sey e change the topic, come dey talk about stars?		Why the seeming change of subject and reference to heavenly bodies?
Wetin we go gain if we dey allow correct us?		What blessings result from accepting God 's discipline?
Cor. 10: 32 ) Make wetin dem go do show sey dem love their neighbor. - Mark 12: 31.		And their decisions should reflect their love for neighbor. - Mark 12: 31.
Abraham feel am and e pain am well well when Sarah die.		Abraham mourned the death of Sarah.
After meeting on Sunday, this elder and im wife dey like to go preach to people wey dey northern Romania.		This elder and his wife find that Sunday after the meeting is a good time to reach sheeplike people in northern Romania.
After some months, we come get one group.		Within a few months, a group was established.
All of us dey make mistake, na im make us dey get problem with people sometimes.		Differences between individuals occur because we are all imperfect.
All this things don pass. '		The former things have passed away. "
And e no stop to dey do wetin want even when people do wetin pain am.		And he remained faithful even when others disappointed him.
And if spirit no dey congregation, peace no go dey. So when person do wetin bad well well for eye, e no good make e hide am.		It can hinder the flow of God 's spirit and threaten the peace of the entire congregation.
And when dem reach there, dem go wait for some weeks before dem bring wetin dem want take repair their motor.		When their truck broke down, which happened often, they walked or cycled for days to the nearest town and then waited for weeks for replacement parts to arrive.
Another thing be sey Bible still tell us sey dey happy as we dey praise am and if we dey use all our mind work for am. ( Ps. 119: 108; 2 Cor.		Moreover, the Scriptures show that it pleases when we make " voluntary offerings of praise " to him and cheerfully do what we can to advance true worship.
Around 1990, different tribe for Bosnia come dey fight and kill theirself.		It was during a time of ethnic strife in the early 1990 ' s.
As clay be for the hand of the person wey dey mold am, na so una be for my hand. ' - JER.		As the clay in the hand of the potter, so are you in my hand. " - JER.
At last, one day for January 1965, letter come and they send us go circuit work!		That was January 1965.
Babylon people no like Jew people. Dem dey laugh dem, and dem still dey laugh wey be Jew people God. ( Ps.		Moreover, the Babylonians looked down on the Jews, mocking both them and their God,.
Barak no waste time carry dem go the war, as command am.		Barak wasted no time in following 's instructions.
Because dem know sey this things na part of wetin dey make person happy and enjoy life.		Because under normal circumstances, people find happiness and satisfaction in doing so.
Bethel life sweet me well well because wetin person dey always get for mind na to help people.		I enjoy Bethel service, for it is a life of giving.
Better Story About Us Wey Don Happen		FROM OUR ARCHIVES
But, make our student dey enjoy im personal study and make the study help am sabi well well. Make we use the things wey organization don give us take help am to like Bible well well.		Rather, let us use the tools provided by 's organization to help our student deepen his or her love for the Bible.
But Bible let us know sey if we too dey ' jealous and like to quarrel, ' e fit cause problem for congregation, and e fit scatter friends. ( Jas.		However, the Bible makes it clear that the presence of " bitter jealousy and contentiousness " in the congregation can destroy friendships and create trouble.
But e still get other things wey fit make person overdo.		There are other reasons, though, why someone may act immodestly.
But e tell the people wey dey serve am sey make dem use wetin dem get to take support im work.		has access to unlimited resources that can sustain his earthly creation.
But later, Timothy come see things wey make am believe sey na Jesus be the Messiah.		But at some point he was convinced by compelling evidence that Jesus was the Messiah.
But people wey dey serve go fit understand everything. " - PROV.		Evil men cannot understand justice, but those who seek can understand everything. " - PROV.
But we no be like that.		And no wonder!
But wetin fit help you, na to first tell dem about yourself.		To overcome such feelings, you might tell them something about yourself.
Dem dey enjoy their life, and still dey try follow wetin talk for different different matter.		Such young people enjoy life to the full while at the same time learning to follow 's guidance in all endeavors.
Dey help people everyday.		Be helpful in everyday life.
E come talk for verse 22 sey: ' Throw that load wey dey heavy you give, and e go help you. '		Then in the same psalm, he said: " Throw your burden on, and he will sustain you. "
E fit be sey, the officer na Rome soldier before e retire, and e no know God Word.		According to custom, the jailer may have been a retired army veteran.
E fit teach am sey wetin e do no good, and e fit add punishment join.		Her discipline may involve both teaching and some punishment.
E go still show sey we dey do wetin e want and we go continue to serve am well.		We act as he wants us to and thus maintain integrity to him.
E no too tey wey circuit overseer come tell me sey make I go El Dorado for Arkansas, to help the congregation for there.		Shortly thereafter, the circuit overseer asked me to move to El Dorado, Arkansas, to help that congregation.
E pain us well well as dem comot, but we happy sey dem dey use their life serve as pioneer.		We missed them very much, but we were pleased that they were using their lives in the full - time service.
E preach to Jew people because e love them.		He preached to the Jews out of deep concern for them.
E tell them say: " I go make wuna load heavy pass this one, and I go add more.		He answered: " I will make your yoke heavier, and I will add to it.
E want learn more from Jesus but e no know wetin other people go talk if dem see am go meet Jesus.		He wanted to learn more but was afraid of what others would say if he spoke with Jesus in public.
Even Jesus know say preaching work for e " own village " no easy. Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John talk about - am. - Matt.		Even Jesus recognized that preaching in his " home territory " was a challenge - a fact recorded by all four Gospel writers. - Matt.
Everybody wey dey serve for this earth, go happy well well when Jesus go tell dem sey: ' Make una come, una wey my Father don bless. Make una take the Kingdom wey God don arrange for una since the world start. ' - Matt.		The rejoicing of 's earthly worshippers will know no bounds when they hear Jesus ' words: " Come, you who have been blessed by my Father, inherit the Kingdom prepared for you from the founding of the world. " - Matt.
For 1919, God choose one ' better slave wey get sense and wey dem fit trust. '		In 1919, a " faithful and discreet slave " was appointed to provide spiritual food to the household of faith.
For Genesis chapter 1 and 2, we see sey Adam and Eve get the kind freedom wey people dey find today, but dem never fit get am. Adam and Eve get everything wey dem need, dem no dey fear anything, and nobody oppress dem.		When reading the first two chapters of Genesis, we can easily see that Adam and Eve enjoyed the kind of freedom that people today can only hope for - freedom from want, from fear, and from oppression.
For Kilkenny, even though sey people dey threaten us, we still study with one man wey dey around 20 years three times every week.		In Kilkenny, we studied with a young man three times a week despite the threats of violent mobs.
For example, e get one time wey Jesus turn water to wine, and Paul tell Timothy make e ' drink small wine. '		For example, Jesus once made wine, and Paul told Timothy to take " a little wine. "
For example, you fit dey think sey some part for Bible no really concern you or sey some of the book no be for people wey dey your age.		For example, what if a portion of the Bible does not seem relevant to our situation?
For the Law, them de keep person wey e get some kind sickness far from other people.		Under the Law, those with certain diseases were to be kept isolated.
For this topic, we go talk about this question dem.		However, some key questions arise: What is a vow?
Good thing dey for us when we follow laws and things wey they fit guide us for Bible. Psalm 119: 97 - 100 talk say: " I really like your law!		Blessings result from observing 's laws and principles, as we read at Psalm 119: 97 - 100: " How I do love your law!
How want make we dey use wetin e don give us?		How does expect us to use our abilities?
If dem disfellowship our family person, or e comot from organization by imself, e dey pain us reach bone.		When a family member is disfellowshipped or he disassociates himself from the congregation, it can feel like the stab of a sword.
If you understand wetin your children dey talk, wetin dem dey watch and listen to, wetin dem dey learn for school, and if you fit dey talk to their teacher face to face, e no go too hard you to train your children well to serve.		You will be in a much better position to raise your children as Christians if you understand their conversations, entertainment, and schoolwork and if you can communicate directly with their teachers.
no want make we thief at all.		All forms of stealing are offensive to.
value life.		In 's eyes, life - especially human life - is sacred.
Jesus na good example.		Jesus was a perfect man.
Make you dey use all your mind support correction.		Yes, work with God 's discipline, not against it.
Many people for there dey put hand for sex matter wey no clean for God eye, and dem no dey respect God law.		Selfish pleasures evidently crowded out unselfish love.
Mistake no dey wetin e dey do because e dey always do the correct thing. ' - DEUT.		The Rock, perfect is his activity, for all his ways are justice. " - DEUT.
Moses tell Israel people sey: ' go bless you for the land wey your God dey give you to get as property, but only if you open ear hear your God voice and sofri do everything wey e dey tell you today.		Moses told the nation of Israel: " will surely bless you in the land that your God is giving you to possess as an inheritance, but only if you strictly obey the voice of your God and carefully observe all this commandment that I am giving you today.
My angel go dey your front. '		My angel will go ahead of you. "
Na im I go and e sweet me well well!		I did - and I loved it!
Na im make Bible talk sey " e no get any other name for this earth wey people dey bear wey fit save us. " - Acts 4: 12; Eph.		This resurrected Son thus became the only one whose name was " given among men by which we must get saved. " - Acts 4: 12; Eph.
Na only dem dey preach sey Jesus don be King since 1914.		They are the only ones who preach that Jesus has been ruling as King since 1914.
Na so our pikin dem and new publisher go take learn how to help other people.		In these ways, younger ones and those newly associated learn to perform acts of kindness for others.
Na true sey all of us need work to survive. And e no bad to choose work wey we like.		True, we have to earn a living, and there is nothing wrong with choosing work we enjoy.
Na true sey if papa and mama no get love for their pikin, e go hard for the pikin to obey dem. But if pikin know sey im papa and mama really like am, e go like to do wetin dem tell am, even when e hard.		On the other hand, when a youngster senses his parents ' genuine love, he is moved to please them even when he is tempted to disobey.
Na you arrest me!		You arrested me!
No dey make am hard for people to come meet you ( Check paragraph 4 - 8 )		Be approachable ( See paragraphs 4 - 8 )
One person come talk sey e go like sell im own. E even advice other people around am make dem still sell their own.		Another neighbor decided to sell, and he encouraged the others around him to do the same.
Other people sleep for Kingdom Hall.		Others slept in Kingdom Halls.
Paul talk sey people for last days no go dey treat each other well. E sey children no go dey obey their papa and mama.		Paul described how people living in the last days would relate to one another.
Plenty money and bankcard dey inside the passport.		Inside the passport were some debit cards and a large sum of money.
Prophet Isaiah don talk am sey ' for last days, ' people from different different country go gather, go worship.		The prophet Isaiah foretold that " in the final part of the days, " people of all nations would flock to 's elevated place of true worship.
So we come dey look wetin Bible talk about why e no good to carry shoulder, and wetin e dey cause.		So for the next few studies, we discussed scriptures on pride and its effects.
Some of dem never reach 13 years, and some dey between 13 and19 years.		They may have been raised in the truth.
TOI still go the house another time.		Yet, she calmly apologized to the woman for the misunderstanding.
That place talk sey Bible be like mirror. We fit use am look ourself, the way dey look us.		Those verses liken God 's Word to a mirror in which we can see ourselves the way sees us.
The Greek word ' tempt ' fit mean ' problem ' or to ' test ' person.		The Greek word rendered " temptation " may denote " test, trial. "
The pieces of clay pot wey dem write wetin the farmworker talk		The pottery shard on which the farmworker 's plea was written
The truth be sey, even the things wey small pass for this earth wey get life ( like bacteria ) dey fit do wetin house no fit do.		Actually, the most basic living cells on earth are far more complex than any house because they can do what no house can do - reproduce.
The water destroy almost all their property.		However, that day they lost almost everything they owned.
They no go live forever.		And they are mortal.
This na wetin Jim talk: " The brother and sister dem welcome me well, and na their love make me change.		The congregation warmly welcomed me, " reports Jim, " and their love was a turning point for me.
This one and other things wey happen show sey really take care of me.		In these and many other ways, I felt 's tender care.
Timothy follow Paul, and dem work together well well. This one make dem love each other more more.		He worked hard alongside Paul, and this strengthened the bonds of affection between them.
Today, we dey hear this things for television, Internet, for our working place, or for school.		It is promoted on television, on the Internet, at work, or at school.
True true, if we use our own sense, we no go fit do am!		Really, in our own wisdom, none of us are up to the task!
WHY SOME PEOPLE NO DEY GREE TRAIN OTHER PEOPLE		WHY SOME PEOPLE DO NOT DELEGATE
We believe sey fit know wetin dey people mind and choose the people wey e go draw near body. This one go help us make we no dey judge the people wey we meet for preaching and our brothers and sisters for congregation.		Our faith in 's ability to read hearts and to draw to himself those whom he chooses should prevent us from judging others, both in our territory and in our congregation.
We fit invite dem come our house, and prepare food or small chop chop for dem.		Providing refreshments or a meal is one fine way of doing this.
We go still talk about wetin people wey don dey serve tey tey go fit do to trowey the old character.		We will also examine what those who have been in the truth for many years can do to keep off the old personality.
We no fit love if we no love our brothers and sisters.		Having love for our brothers and sisters is linked to the love we have for.
We no fit really know the kind better things wey God get for mind for the people wey go follow Jesus rule for heaven when dem start to rule.		It is difficult to imagine the wonders that has in store for anointed Christians when they are seated on thrones to rule with Christ in heaven.
Wetin fit happen to me if I dey quick vex?		How will a quick temper affect me?
Wetin fit help you preach to other people?		How can your view of your faith help you to speak to others?
When dem start to know each other, their love come dey grow, sotey dem want marry and dem ready to stay with each other.		During courtship, their love has grown so much that they are ready to vow that they will be faithful to each other in marriage.
When e see the people wey come meet am, e pity for dem.		We can learn a lesson from Jesus.
When we reach there, na only one group ( no be congregation ) dem get for the city and one house for missionary wey four sisters dey. The sisters name na Esther Tracy, Ramona Bauer, Luiza Schwarz, and Lorraine Brookes ( wey be Lorraine Wallen now ).		When we arrived, there was only one isolated group in the city as well as a missionary home with four sisters: Esther Tracy, Ramona Bauer, Luiza Schwarz, and Lorraine Brookes ( now Wallen ).
Which other things dey Judges 5: 20, 21 about the war wey Israel people fight with Sisera?		What details does Judges 5: 20, 21 provide regarding the battle against Sisera?
Who know whether one of the invitation wey remain go help person wey want listen to come Memorial. - Matt.		One of the remaining invitations that you have might help a deserving one to make the decision to attend the Memorial. Who knows? - Matt.
Why e good make papa and mama take am easy with their pikin when dem dey teach dem?		When teaching children, why is patience vital?
Why e good make we continue to make people mind come down?		Why is there an ongoing need to give comfort?
Why e good make we look the kind person wey we dey make friend with?		Why can you be confident that good associations will prove to be a blessing?
Why we no need to fear Satan and the demons?		Why is there no need to feel intimidated by Satan and the demons?
You Dey Copy How Take Dey Judge Matter?		What Will Go When God 's Kingdom Comes?
You fit tell am make e read some part for the appendix wey dey the back of What Does the Bible Really Teach?		You might suggest that he read portions of the appendix of the What Does the Bible Really Teach?
You go stop to serve because of wetin happen to you?		Will you allow that to be a cause for stumbling?
E thank Boaz because of the way Boaz treat am.		Second, she readily expressed gratitude for the kindnesses shown to her.
Our greeting dey important to people, especially our Christian brothers and sisters. If we always get this one for mind, we and other people go gain.		By being conscious of the value of our greetings, especially to fellow Christians, we enrich others as well as ourselves.
Na im make Joshua need word wey go make am strong!		No wonder Joshua needed to be encouraged and strengthened!
Person fit no lie but e fit come dey deceive other people, dey tell dem wetin no be true.		Sadly, a person who makes it a point never to tell outright lies might still resort to deceiving others, dealing falsely with them.
Jesus show sey heaven dey happy when one person wey dey sin repent.		Jesus pointed out that there is joy in heaven when a sinner has come to repentance.
Jesus command im disciples make dem tell people about am ' go reach where far pass for this world. ' Na the last thing wey e tell dem before e go heaven be that.		In his last words to his disciples before he returned to heaven, Jesus instructed them to be of him " to the most distant part of the earth. "
Two, the thing wey Satan de give no de last.		Second, those who join Satan receive only limited benefits.
We don see am sey, we go really fit choose the thing wey good for us if we dey think the way dey think.		Clearly, we can make the best personal decisions when our thoughts and actions are in harmony with the thinking of our all - wise God,.
How we go take show sey we no dey think sey where we come from better pass another person own?		How can we tell if we are becoming too proud of our country?
Today, wetin go happen if person wey don baptize run comot with another person husband or wife?		Today, if a baptized person ran off with someone else 's mate, what would the consequences be?
Wetin Hebrews 6: 10 - 12 talk wey mek you feel sey you fit leave things wey you like because of work?		How do the words at Hebrews 6: 10 - 12 encourage you to be self - sacrificing?
Wetin we go add join the main things wey we believe?		What should we include among our core beliefs?
How dey feel if we dey think about how we go take sleep with person wey no be our husband or wife?		How does feel if we keep on thinking about sexually immoral things?
If you put all your mind to make happy, e go take care of you even when you don old.		If you are focused on pleasing, he will provide for you even in your old age.
Wetin Paul do to make sure sey e train Timothy well?		What interest did Paul take in the progress of Timothy?
Jesus no ever sin, so e no need to repent. ( 1 Pet.		Jesus was without sin, so he did not need to repent.
DEY PRAY EVERY TIME.		PRAY OFTEN.
Which kind topic, some people dey like to read?		What sort of study projects might some enjoy?
After one week, Luigi come see sey the man na the husband of one woman wey e preach to!		A week later, Luigi was making a return visit on a woman and he learned that her husband was the other driver!
And dem never build temple for Jerusalem finish. All of dem run leave am.		Dishonesty and other wicked practices were still present, and the rebuilding of 's temple in Jerusalem was far from complete.
As day " dey near, " we go need to dey encourage each other more more. ( Heb.		Mutual encouragement will become more and more important as we see 's day " drawing near. "
As World War II dey end, another strong war start for Greece. E get one group for Greece wey start to fight their government.		Just as World War II was ending, Greek communists rebelled against the Greek government, triggering a bitter civil war.
As people wey dey serve, we be one family. Make we dey see our work for house as work wey we dey do to help our brothers and sisters for congregation, no be to find position! - 1 Tim.		As members of God 's household, we learn to think in terms of fulfilling roles in a family or as part of a congregation rather than achieving a rank or climbing a corporate ladder. - 1 Tim.
Because we know sey if we endure, we go be better Christian, we no go want do wetin no like just to end the problem.		Because endurance can make us better Christians, we would not want to break 's law just to end our trial.
Bible no tell us wetin make Hezekiah begin raise shoulder.		The Bible does not tell us just what caused Hezekiah 's heart to become haughty.
Bible tell us sey Saul come baptize. ( Acts 9: 17, 18; Gal.		Regarding that man the Bible tells us: " He then got up and was baptized. "
Brothers wey dey give talk for all this meeting no dey take am play.		Brothers who speak from the platform on these occasions enjoy a great privilege.
But David know sey, go help Solomon do the work wey E give am.		Yet, David knew that would equip Solomon to handle the work given to him.
But Riana family people no understand why e no want go university make e get better work.		However, Riana 's relatives did not understand why he did not pursue a secular career.
But after e learn wetin Bible talk, e come change mind.		Yet, after studying the Bible, he changed his mind.
But how you go take help your pikin get this kind sense?		How can you help your children to acquire it?
But wetin you talk yesterday, ehn. " If you don talk with am, and the matter no settle, continue to go meet am.		If the discussion does not produce the results you desire, look for another opportunity to make peace.
Cut the apple into two, give am the seed.		Then cut the apple in two, and give him a seed.
Daniel no talk sey, ' Na only thirty days dem sey make I no pray to God! '		Daniel could have made excuses, saying, ' Thirty days is not forever! '
Dem leave go dey serve other gods. ( Judg.		They turned away from and worshipped false gods.
E be like sey for people eye the answer na ' No. ' Why?		At the time, it seemed most unlikely that they would.
E clear sey, for us to get life wey no go end for paradise, we must get faith and continue to dey make am strong.		Clearly, our prospect of enjoying eternal life in God 's new world depends on our having faith and keeping it strong.
E come still talk for another place sey: ' God raise am up and put am for high position, e come use better mind give am name wey big pass all other name. ' - Phil.		And elsewhere we read: " God exalted him to a superior position and kindly gave him the name that is above every other name. " - Phil.
E fit be sey na lie dem lie for the caretaker head. We know this one because of the Greek word wey dem use for Luke 16: 1.		The Greek word rendered " accused " at Luke 16: 1 allows for the idea that the steward was slandered.
E know sey if e no talk, dem no go fit be friend like before and im mind go dey judge am.		The prophet knew that if he remained silent, his relationship with David would not be the same and his own conscience would suffer.
E no easy, but this one make Israel people know sey life get value.		These serious consequences impressed on all Israelites the sanctity of human life.
E no go tey, I go travel again go the island dem go preach and I go dey there for some years.		I would soon be sailing to the islands and be away for a few more years.
E still beg am make e no vex.		It was a very difficult situation, " she admitted.
E still talk about how God people go take get one mind for the last days. "		That message also foretells the unification of God 's people that started to take place during the last days. "
E talk say " person fit get good character no matter the place wey e come from. "		And the Canadian brother says that he now realizes that " ignorance is often the mother of racism and that people 's qualities do not depend on their place of birth. "
E threaten am sey e go put am for prison because e be Witness. And true true, for 1952, dem come talk sey Maria go stay prison for ten years.		Furious, the officer threatened to have her locked up for being a Witness, and indeed, in 1952, Maria was sentenced to ten years in prison.
For that one to happen, we go make sure say our love for really strong. If person want make fire continue to burn, e go de add more firewood.		Just as we stoke a fire to keep it alive, we need to keep our love for God burning by regularly studying his Word, meditating on what we read, and persevering in prayer.
For this one, e get wetin we go learn from how the ' flower dem wey dey bush ' be.		In this case, we can learn a lot from the appearance of " the lilies of the field. "
How Barzillai take show sey e know where e suppose do reach?		How did Barzillai manifest modesty?
How Bible fit help husband and wife if dem get problem?		How can the Bible help if there are problems in a marriage?
How things be for Israel people that time?		What was the situation of the Israelites at that time?
I even dey happy pass before. As some of my neighbor come dey see sey I don really change, dem tell me sey, " Araceli, no stop to dey follow this road wey you don choose! "		Some of my neighbors noticed this change and told me, " Araceli, keep going on the way you have chosen! "
I really trust sey e go give me wetin I need? '		Do I really trust in to care for my needs? '
If we sey we don forgive person, we no go carry wetin e do us for mind. Person fit no know sey e do wetin make us vex.		We forgive by pardoning someone who has offended us and by letting go of our resentment toward him.
If we want kill wetin dey make sex matter hungry us, we need to comot hand from anything wey dey talk about am.		To deaden immoral desires, we need to reject immoral entertainment.
Imagine sey e get one man wey want learn the truth wey dey Bible. E come tell imself sey e want go listen to the public talk wey dem advertise for newspaper.		A man interested in finding Bible truth decides to attend a public talk advertised in The Irish Times.
Jehoshaphat wey be Asa pikin, do like im papa. ( 2 Chron.		Asa 's son Jehoshaphat " kept walking in the way of his father Asa. "
Wey Dey Judge the Whole World ' Go Always Do the Correct Thing, Apr.		Nov. Are You Willing to Wait Patiently? Aug.
dey use elders for congregation mold us, but na we go choose whether we go do wetin dem talk ( Check paragraph 12, 13 )		uses Christian elders to mold us, but we must do our part ( See paragraphs 12, 13 )
go show us im favor if we no dey raise shoulder.		Developing and strengthening humility will also make us recipients of God 's undeserved kindness.
Just as e don happen before, they come de quarrel about " who they think say e big pass among them. "		As had happened before, a dispute arose over " which one of them was considered to be the greatest. "
Make we no forget sey everybody get as dem take train dem and wetin dem believe. So make we choose wetin go make people listen to the message. - 1 Cor.		Yes, we consider each person as an individual and adapt our approach accordingly. - 1 Cor.
Make we no think about our problem sotey we comot mind from the main thing. Make we always remember sey, the main thing na to support as our King.		Primarily this: Let us not become so absorbed in our own lives that we lose sight of this big issue - the vindication of 's sovereignty.
Make we value am the way the business man take value that stone. How we fit do am? Make we ready to comot body from anything wey fit make us no enter God Kingdom.		If we love it as much as the merchant loved that pearl, we will be willing to give up everything in order to become and to remain one of the subjects of the Kingdom.
My papa wear im military uniform for our family picture		Our family with Father in his military uniform
Na Caesar high pass for people wey dey rule that time. - Acts 25: 11.		Finally, so that he could get a fair hearing, Paul said: " I appeal to Caesar! " - the most powerful ruler of that time. - Acts 25: 11.
Na so the blood just stop at once!		Her flow of blood stopped immediately!
Na this plan help dem fit go Ghana for 2004.		Those decisions enabled them to move to Ghana in 2004.
Na this things and prayer help us fit continue to do wetin like.		Those activities and heartfelt prayer helped to sustain us spiritually.
No be only when our brothers and sisters dey handle part or when dem answer question for meeting dem fit help us dey strong. The way dem dey happy dey sing our song still dey help us dey strong.		Our brothers and sisters encourage us not only when they give talks but also when they give comments and praise by singing from the heart.
No let anything make you fear, because I go dey with you anywhere wey you go. ' ( Josh.		Do not be struck with terror or fear, for your God is with you wherever you go. "
Number three, Paul explain say: " They really love to serve God. "		Third, Paul added: " They have a zeal for God. "
One brother wey dey for Tokmok invite us go one wedding.		A Christian brother in Tokmok invited us to a wedding.
Other brothers wey be Jew and even Barnabas, come dey do like Peter.		Other Jewish members of the congregation, even Barnabas, were wrongly influenced by Peter to do the same.
Paul talk sey person wey get God spirit dey different from person wey no get am. And the way dem dey see things dey different.		Paul 's words clearly state that a spiritual person cannot enjoy complete harmony with a physical person.
People wey write Bible for apostle time show sey faith na better thing because, dem talk about am plenty times.		The Christian Bible writers emphasized the importance of faith by referring to it hundreds of times.
Russia police tell us make we comot from where we dey stay.		The KGB ordered us to leave the city.
Small time breeze come blow! Na that time elders come fit help am.		Eventually, his conduct came to light, and he received much - needed help.
So, e make sense to use all our mind support our children for things wey go make dem hold tight.		It makes so much more sense to expend effort and resources in helping our children reach goals that will help them to maintain a good standing with.
So, if you know any pioneer wey don dey tire, e good make you remind am of all the better things wey e don do before.		Simply reminding a discouraged pioneer of past joys can be a real source of comfort.
So, whether na Bible wey dem print we dey read, or the one wey dey our phone, make we let am enter our mind.		Whether reading God 's Word in printed or electronic form, our goal should be to get it off the page and into our heart.
So even if sometimes e de pain us as people no de listen, we de endure and continue with the preaching work.		So despite moments of discouragement, we endure.
So we fit talk sey ' Ephraim stick, ' na the stick wey mean the ten - tribe kingdom.		Therefore, it was appropriate that the stick representing the ten - tribe kingdom be called " the stick of Ephraim. "
The pioneer work wey I choose help me run from the wahala wey dey inside other work. And e don help me enjoy many things as I dey do work. "		My decision to pioneer helped me sidestep frustration in a secular career and opened the way for years of joy in 's service. "
The second day, I happy to know sey sign language group dey the convention and na one sister dey sign the program for dem.		On the second day, however, I was thrilled to find out that a deaf group with a sign - language interpreter was there.
The thing be sey, the matter concern everybody for heaven and earth.		The answer involves all intelligent creatures.
The time wey Jesus dey talk about this preaching, you think sey wetin dey im mind na make im disciples dey preach one one as dem fit? Or e want make dem do am together?		Was Jesus referring only to the individual efforts of his followers, or was he alluding to an organized campaign to preach the good news?
Things wey you want use your life do for.		Spiritual goals.
This one make am sick. But dem release am for 1956.		Her health suffered, but in 1956 she was set free and headed for Tulun.
This one show sey the man really value wetin e learn, and e ready to do wetin God want.		He desired to work in harmony with 's arrangement, so he got baptized without delay.
We dey show sey we get strong mind, when we help our children choose wetin go help dem serve well.		We show courage when we help our children to set and reach spiritual goals.
We know sey no be person Jephthah want take do sacrifice because to use person do sacrifice, na wetin hate.		hates the sacrificing of humans, so we know that Jephthah was not going to make a literal sacrifice.
We see as people dey shoot and the way people dey run.		We could see people running, shooting.
Wetin Bible talk wey fit help everybody for family get wetin God promise?		Heeding what Scriptural counsel will help us to attain the prize as a family?
Wetin I do suppose pain am, but no be wetin my friend dey think about be that. Instead e dey think about me and wetin fit happen to me.		But what struck me was that she was mostly concerned about me and what would result from my behavior.
Wetin be some things wey our body need and wey dey make us happy when we dey do dem?		What are some instinctive actions that contribute to one 's happiness?
Wetin be that?		And what event is that?
Wetin make love good for marriage?		Why are love and tenderness very important in a marriage?
Wetin make us fit talk sey na Jesus lead Christian for apostle time?		Why can we say that Jesus led the early Christians?
Wetin our children talk give us mind to pack.		Their words encouraged us to make the move.
Wetin song dey help us do?		What does singing enable us to do?
When I dey small, I no too serious with wetin I dey learn from Bible.		I took it for granted.
When Mutsuo open the book, the topic wey e first see na " The Deadliest Tsunamis Ever Recorded. "		Immediately, the heading " The Deadliest Tsunamis Ever Recorded " caught Mutsuo 's eye.
When temptation come, dem dey allow theirself fall put. ( Prov.		When confronted with temptation, the fleshly - minded person weakens and gives in.
Which one you don promise?		What should we do " day after day, " and why?
Which work don give brothers wey dey teach us?		What responsibility do brothers who teach from the platform have?
You dey like to choose wetin you go do by yourself, or you dey like make other people tell you wetin you go do?		Do you like making your own decisions, or do you prefer that others decide for you?
You fit see am for our jw.org website for many language.		They can be found on jw.org in many languages.
Zechariah know sey God people wey come from Babylon get faith.		Zechariah knew that the Jews who moved to Jerusalem were men and women of faith.
sin dey our body?		our own weaknesses?
One man wey in name na Diotrephes come ' dey talk bad things ' about apostle John and other people. E no dey gree help brothers wey visit congregation, and e want make other people copy am.		A man named Diotrephes was spreading " malicious talk " about the apostle John and others, was refusing to extend hospitality to traveling Christians, and was trying to persuade others to follow his example.
How Memorial take dey help all of us get one mind?		In what ways does the Memorial influence the unity of God 's people?
Even though sey wetin Peter do go don pain the brothers wey no be Jew, Jesus wey be head for congregation still use am. ( Eph.		Although Peter 's error in judgment may have been painful for the Gentile members of the congregation, Jesus, who is head of the congregation, continued to use him.
But Michael talk sey: " E just be like sey angel cover all the soldier eye and save us. " - Ps.		He says, " It seemed to me that the angels blinded the soldiers and that rescued us. " - Ps.
E no just choose dem.		This was not an arbitrary choice.
Even though sey God get the power to know our tomorrow, e no dey use am anyhow.		He thus balances his power of foreknowledge with his respect for our free will.
Because Jesus na our High Priest, e go fit save people wey dey use im name pray to God. ' E go save dem finish because e go always dey alive to beg for dem. ' ( Heb.		As our High Priest, " he is able also to save completely those who are approaching God through him, because he is always alive to plead for them. "
So, papa and mama wey get sense go try teach their pikin wetin dey Bible and help dem like am well well, as dem still small.		Accordingly, wise parents can strive to inculcate knowledge of the truth and love for it in the minds and hearts of their little ones.
Aug.		Proper View of Mistakes, No.
Dem dey maintain the road wey dem dey pass go the city.		Roads leading to the cities of refuge were kept in good repair.
After God resurrect Jesus, wetin e tell the people wey dey follow am?		After his resurrection, Jesus gave what command to his followers?
How we go take help dem?		In what practical ways can we assist immigrants in our congregation?
Why we fit wear the new character?		Why is putting on the new personality within our reach?
We know sey Satan fit use the love wey we get for our family to make us stop to dey serve.		We must also realize that Satan will try to use our affection for our family to break our integrity.
Because love no dey fail, we get the mind sey e no go stop to help us comot the bad things wey dey our mind.		We can trust that in his loyal love, he will stick with us and help us to conquer our wrong desires.
Chron. 24: 20, 21 ) Dem for free Daniel and im three friend, if to sey dem gree do wetin God no like.		Daniel and his companions clearly had the opportunity to " accept release " by compromising their integrity.
How Zechariah Vision Take Concern Us Today?		Visions of Zechariah - How They Affect You
Wetin we go do so that our faith go strong more more?		What will help us to develop spiritual stability?
Wetin the vision teach us and who be the man wey carry wetin person take dey write?		What does this vision teach us, and who is the man with the secretary 's inkhorn?
And after two years, e come dey follow Paul travel.		Two years later he became Paul 's traveling companion.
And dem teach us sey true true, God go bring people wey don die come life. And we get the mind sey e go really happen.		We have seen that actual events in the past prove that a resurrection is possible - the dead can be brought back to life.
And everything e do go get head. ' - Ps.		And everything he does will succeed. " - Ps.
And river bring out people wey don die for inside, and death and Grave bring out people wey don die for inside, and dem judge dem one one as dem take live their life. '		And the sea gave up the dead in it, and death and the Grave gave up the dead in them, and they were judged individually according to their deeds. "
And when e sell am finish, e come pay the person wey e dey owe money. The money wey remain help the woman and im children to survive. ( 2 Ki.		God 's gift enabled her to pay off her debts and after that to have enough money for her and her sons to live on.
Apostle Paul na strong man wey do many things. But e no fit do everything wey e want do.		Although he was a capable man, the apostle Paul had limitations that prevented him from doing everything he wanted to do.
Around that convention time, World War II just end and people want really show sey dem like their country.		At that time, World War II had just ended and nationalism was running high.
As 2 Corinthians 1: 6 talk, how Paul example take help other people endure?		According to 2 Corinthians 1: 6, how did the endurance of Paul help others?
As e be sey we dey gain if we dey read and dey study everything wey dey Bible, na so e go still be if we dey use everything wey don give us to make our faith strong.		Just as we find it beneficial to study all portions of God 's Word, we can benefit from all the spiritual food available to us.
As we dey plenty, we go need more book wey we take dey teach Bible, build more Kingdom Hall, maintain dem and buy more land to build Assembly Hall.		In turn, such growth calls for the printing of more Bible literature, the building and maintaining of Kingdom Halls, and the acquiring of assembly and convention sites.
As you dey waka, e come be like sey person dey follow you for back.		Suddenly you sense that someone is following you.
Because many people come the assembly, Catholic people come dey vex.		The impact of these parades did not please the Catholic Church, which led a campaign against the.
Because na im make us, we suppose dey thank am, worship am and praise am.		Since he is our Creator, we should thank him, honor him, and praise him.
Because the Christians for im time ' don die leave sin. '		Because, as Paul writes, Christians have " died with reference to sin. "
Bible still talk sey: ' Na im e come make their mind strong and e tell dem wetin make their mind come down. ' - Gen.		The Bible account adds: " Thus he comforted them and spoke reassuringly to them. " - Gen.
Bible talk sey, ' God go save woman when e don born pikin. ' ( 1 Tim.		The Bible does mention a Christian woman 's being " kept safe through childbearing. "
Bible talk sey: ' The things wey God don make, go free from sin come get the freedom wey God pikin dem get. '		The Bible says: " The creation itself will also be set free from enslavement to corruption and have the glorious freedom of the children of God. "
Brother Russell learn from Bible sey Jesus Christ go start to rule for 1914 and nobody go take eye see Jesus.		He discerned that Christ would return invisibly and that " the appointed times of the nations " would end in 1914.
But, how this one fit make us to do more for God work?		But do we see how this sets before us opportunities for increased service to God?
But e good make dem copy example when dem want correct am. Make dem still put eye for the better character wey the person get. - Jude 22, 23.		If as a parent or an overseer you must administer discipline, will you imitate, hating the wrong while looking for the good in your child or fellow believer? - Jude 22, 23.
But if the papa and mama don already try their best to help their pikin, their conscience no go worry dem.		Nonetheless, parents who have tried their best to impress the truth on a child 's heart have a good conscience.
Caesar na the person wey dey rule and wey dey control everything wey dey happen that time.		At that time, Caesar was the ruler and was the highest human authority.
Dem beg to give dem power to fit endure. ( Phil.		They supplicated in prayer to give them the power needed to endure.
Dem born us with different different gift and na use dem bless us, even though we no reach to get am.		In his undeserved kindness, has given each of us certain gifts, assets, abilities, or talents.
Dem use all their mind do wetin want and dem use all their life serve am.		They were zealous in doing God 's will and were fully devoted to accomplishing it.
E get many way to do this one.		There are many ways to do this.
E go good make we ask ourself, ' I dey support the people wey Jesus dey use teach us today? '		Each one of us does well to ask himself, ' Am I loyal to the channel that Jesus is using today? '
E greet plenty people for the letters wey e write.		His letters contain many specific greetings.
E know sey na make us and na im give us life. This one come make am get the mind sey go remember am when e die, and e go bring am come life.		Still, he trusted that the One who created human life in the first place could and would remember him and resurrect him.
E sey this things dey ' work for their body ' before. ( Rom. 7: 5 ) This one make us understand wetin e mean for people to ' do wetin the flesh want. '		He linked " living according to the flesh " with " the sinful passions " that were then " at work in [ their ] bodies. "
E still get other times wey be sey after hospital give some Christian free treatment, dem fit want dash the doctor and nurse something, to show sey dem happy for the treatment.		In other cases, after receiving free medical treatment in a public hospital, some Christians give gifts to doctors and nurses out of gratitude for the treatment received.
E talk say: " All of wuna na brothers. "		All of you are brothers, " he said.
E talk sey: ' E pain me when Giuliana tell me sey wetin I do pain am well well.		She had every right to be angry.
E talk sey e dey our hand to choose wetin we want do.		The fruits of such reasoning are plain to see.
Even if e get some things wey dem need to correct, e no make sense to sey because God want correct the Bible Students, dem come be slave for fake religion hand that time.		However, it would be a mistake to conclude that the Bible Students were first taken into captivity to Babylon the Great because they needed correction and discipline.
Even though sey that time na just 17 years I dey, na me and my pioneer partner dey handle the different different part for meeting. Because na new congregation, brothers wey fit handle part no too dey.		Although I was only 17 years old, my partner and I were given the responsibility of conducting meetings because there were few qualified brothers in the new congregation.
FOR many years, wetin dey Deuteronomy 6: 4 dey one prayer wey Jew people dey pray every day.		FOR centuries, the six words of the Hebrew text of Deuteronomy 6: 4 have been used by people of the Jewish faith as part of a devotional prayer.
Filip and Ida na husband and wife wey never old, and dem be pioneer wey come from Denmark. Their mind dey always dey to go preach for where dem need more publisher.		Filip and Ida, a middle - aged pioneer couple from Denmark, always dreamed of moving to a territory where the need is greater.
For Bible, how Ezekiel take explain organization wey dey heaven?		How is the heavenly part of 's organization described in the book of Ezekiel?
For example, Noah show sey e get strong faith when e do wetin God tell am. God tell am make e build ark wey go save im family and from there people go full this world again. ( Heb.		For example, Noah showed great faith and chose to obey God 's instructions to build an ark for the preservation of his own family and future generations of humankind.
For example, e get one man wey write about Witness people for Germany.		OBSERVERS have commented on the outstanding qualities seen among 's people.
For example, many people today dey treat other people like god.		Clearly, we do not want to imitate those in the world who, using social media, treat humans as if they were idols.
For example, the Law sey make the Jews no eat some kind meat.		For example, in Babylon, Daniel and three of his companions - Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego - abstained from foods that were forbidden to Jews.
For this topic, we go learn wetin we fit do so that wetin people dey talk no go spoil our mind.		In this article, we will examine what we can do to prevent such thinking from corrupting our mind.
Hannah na another person wey do wetin e promise.		Hannah was another one who faithfully kept the vow that she had made to.
How go help you when this one happen?		How might help you?
How the story wey Jesus talk take help im disciples?		How does the parable of the talents provide encouragement?
How we fit do like Jehoshaphat?		How can you follow the course of Jehoshaphat?
How we fit take show love to brothers wey come visit our congregation?		How can we provide hospitality to visiting representatives of 's organization?
How we go take show sey we get the kind faith wey Jephthah and im pikin get?		How can we show faith like that of Jephthah and his daughter?
How we take dey gain from favor? And how we fit thank am for this one?		How do we benefit from 's undeserved kindness, and how can we show our gratitude for it?
I really change well well when I come dey think about wetin dey 2 Peter 2: 11 and the advice wey elders give me. "		Meditating on 2 Peter 2: 11 and on personal counsel from the elders made a big difference. "
If children dey talk good things about their papa and mama, e go make other children copy their better example. This children go come dey respect their own papa and mama pass before.		Of course, if parents have no natural affection for their children, it might be difficult for those children to obey from the heart.
If dem no allow person do some kind work for congregation again, how this one take show sey God love am?		When discipline involves restrictions, how does this reflect God 's love?
If we use all our mind support work, wetin e go make other people do?		What is the effect of your volunteer service on those who benefit from it?
If you no quick go meet the person, e go hard for una to settle the matter.		The longer we put off dealing with the situation, the harder it will be for us to make peace with our brother.
want make everybody repent. '		desires all to attain to repentance. "
Job talk sey: " No be the same person wey make me for belle make dem? "		Did not the One who made me in the womb also make them? " he said.
Joseph talk for Bible sey dem ' kidnap ' am.		Notice that Joseph described himself as having been " kidnapped. "
Lamech, wey be Noah papa, get faith for. But e die five years before the heavy rain fall.		Noah 's God - fearing father, Lamech, died about five years before the Flood.
Many people go don go back to wetin dem dey do before. But e good make we go when the thing just happen, and when people no dey too go there again.		Therefore, make yourself available, not just for the first few days when many friends and relatives are present, but in subsequent months when others have returned to their normal routine.
My papa and mama like Arthur because e get better character and e no lazy. Na this one make dem tell am sey make e come dey stay with dem.		Impressed with the way this young, hardworking pioneer conducted himself, my parents invited Arthur to stay with them.
Na new seed e go produce. So, the fruit wey we de produce no be new disciples, but na new seed.		And just as a wheat stalk produces as fruit, not new stalks, but new seed, we are producing as fruit, not new disciples, but new Kingdom seed.
Na that one go show sey we really happy for the things wey dey teach us - things wey go make life better for us! - Isa.		We will thereby show our gratitude to the One who teaches us to benefit ourselves. - Isa.
One pioneer dey show one man the better things wey dey Good News brochure		A pioneer shares with a worker the important contents of the Good News brochure
One thing be sey, God get the kind character wey you go like make your friend get.		For one thing, God has qualities that you likely look for in your best friends.
One woman wey read their letter, come write give dem after two years sey: " Una letter help me sabi the correct thing wey dey Bible.		In a delayed reply, a woman wrote: " Your letter helped me to learn the truth.
Other verse for Luke chapter 15 show sey Jesus talk this story so that e go correct wetin the scribe and Pharisee dem get for mind. Dem dey talk bad about Jesus because e dey draw body near tax collector and people wey dey sin.		The context shows that Jesus spoke these words in order to correct the thinking of the scribes and the Pharisees, who criticized him for associating with tax collectors and sinners.
Paul talk sey ' people go love only theirself. '		Men will be lovers of themselves, " wrote the inspired apostle.
Paul tell the brothers for the congregation wey dey Philippi sey: " Una know wetin [ Timothy ] show about imself, sey like pikin wey dey with im papa, e work with me make the good news fit spread. " ( Phil.		Paul reminded the Philippians: " You know the proof [ Timothy ] gave of himself, that like a child with a father he slaved with me to advance the good news. "
People wey dem go bring come life, go get the hope sey for front, dem no go get sin for body again, and dem go live forever.		Those raised will have the prospect of growing to human perfection and never having to die again.
So, wetin better friend go do if something want scatter their friendship?		Consequently, how will a good friend react when a friendship is in danger?
The " study guides " go help you know how to tell other people wetin you believe.		Other ideas for study can be found in the article " Young People Ask.
The sister come see sey, wetin make am dey vex before, no even concern Janet.		The sister discovered that she had misunderstood a matter that did not even involve Janet.
The vision help Jew people know sey love dem and e like wetin dem don do for am before. E still help dem know sey go protect dem if dem go back go finish im work.		God gave Zechariah a final vision to assure the Jews of His love and appreciation for all that they had done so far and to guarantee protection for them if they would return to His work.
The way don take bless me and Maria because we no leave am, plenty pass wetin I think.		The blessings Maria and I received for remaining steadfast have been greater than I could ever have imagined.
This na wetin Venecia come talk: " To use phone preach dey work o! "		Now Venecia says: " Phone witnessing works! "
This one for make them talk say Jesus na enemy to Roman government.		If Jesus said that taxation was a necessary burden, he could lose the support of his followers.
Wetin tell Israel people make dem choose, and wetin dem choose?		What choice did give his people, Israel, and how did the nation respond?
Wetin Matthew write about the family wey Jesus come from, dey different from Luke own. Matthew write all the name of the family wey Joseph come from.		Matthew traces Joseph 's ancestry and shows that Jesus as Joseph 's adopted son was the legal heir to David 's kingship.
Wetin Naboth talk show sey im na person wey really dey follow law.		Clearly, Naboth had 's view of matters.
Wetin Rome people do for Jew people no be new thing, na the normal thing wey dem dey do for people wey dey under their government. '		There was nothing exceptional in the actual giving of these privileges, for in so doing the Romans were only following their usual custom of granting the greatest possible local autonomy to the different parts of their empire. "
Wetin people wey dey show sey dem thank God for im favor go gain?		What awaits those who prove their appreciation for God 's undeserved kindness?
Whether the promise na about person wey just die, or person wey don die tey tey, you go believe am?		Could you rely on such a long - term promise, whether the promise was about someone who just died or one who had been dead for a long time?
Which things fit don make disciples of Jesus that time, no dey as one, and which question we go answer for this topic?		What factors may have contributed to a lack of unity among Christ 's disciples, and what questions will we consider?
Why promise im people sey e go bless dem?		Why does promise his worshippers a reward?
World War II start for 1939, and the next year dem ban our preaching work for Canada.		World War II broke out in 1939, and the next year the activity of 's in Canada was banned.
We know all the style wey [ Satan ] de use. " - 2 COR. 2: 11, ftn.		We are not ignorant of [ Satan 's ] schemes. " - 2 COR. 2: 11, ftn.
I Thank Sey I Dey Help People Learn About Am ' ( Germany, World War I ), Aug.		Benefit From 's Guidance ( experiences ), Sept.
Love dey patient and e get good mind. E no dey carry shoulder up. '		Love is also " patient and kind " and " does not get puffed up. "
We must ready to help " people wey they want get life. "		First, we strive to maintain a heartfelt desire to find any who might be " rightly disposed for everlasting life. "
Even if this kind thing no too dey happen, make e no surprise us or make us stop to serve if e happen.		Although such instances are rare, faithful Christians are not surprised or stumbled when injustices do occur.
So we fit talk sey the stick ' for Judah ' mean the two - tribe kingdom.		So it was fitting that the two - tribe kingdom would be represented by the stick that was " for Judah. "
One young brother for Britain talk sey: " E hard to see people wey dey talk true like that today.		Honesty like that is rare, " said a young brother in Britain.
And whether person study science or e no study am, e no fit talk sey e don ever see where one thing wey get life dey change to another one.		And no human - whether he is a scientist or not - has observed one kind of life evolve into another kind.
Make we read and talk about wetin dey Matthew 6: 25 - 34.		Let us read and analyze the portion that is recorded at Matthew 6: 25 - 34.
But if we too dey think about our condition, e fit make us tire to wait.		If we were to brood over disappointments, we could become very discouraged.
Na true sey we dey tire sometimes.		It is true that sometimes we will get tired.
Wetin make our 2017 yeartext make sense?		Why is our yeartext for 2017 fitting?
Who suppose choose congregation wey go favor the family?		Who must decide which language congregation to attend?
How you de feel as God give you chance to tell people about e name?		How do you feel about having the privilege to sanctify God 's name?
Wetin go happen when Jesus don rule for 1,000 years?		What will result by the end of Christ 's Thousand Year Reign?
to support people wey dey direct work?		for the general support of the work?
How we fit know where we suppose do reach, even when people dey over praise us?		How can modesty help us to deal with flattery or excessive praise?
Whether we be young person or we don mature, to use better word help each other na wetin all of us fit do.		All of us, including young ones, can build one another up by words of encouragement.
But how we go take do am?		But how do we do so?
We fit still do like that today.		In our day, too, such a need arises.
Im na Papa wey no dey tight hand. Na im make, e dey give us things wey get value.		As a generous Father, he openhandedly shares his spiritual riches with all who discern their excelling value.
True true, all of us wey dey serve suppose know wetin dey this verse because na the kind character wey want make all im servant get dey there.		In fact, each Christian can learn from the qualifications listed in these verses, as most of them involve things that asks of all Christians.
Why e good make we dey settle quarrel quick quick?		Why is it important to settle personal differences promptly?
So, as plenty people dey gather every year to remember Jesus death, dem dey praise and Jesus for the better thing wey dem do.		How wonderful that and Jesus are honored in this way by means of the annual Memorial observance!
After, I come go back to Saskatoon.		Later, I moved back to Saskatoon.
And as I dey preach with people wey come from different different place, I sabi many things wey I no sabi before.		I learned that there are different ways of doing things.
And how we fit show sey we value as Bible dey for language wey we fit understand?		And how can we show our appreciation for having access to God 's Word in a language we can understand?
And make we listen well when dem dey talk to us. Make we no just dey look our brothers and sisters sey some ' strong ' and some ' weak. '		This can include sharing upbuilding Scriptural thoughts, inviting them to join us in the ministry, or just taking time to listen to them.
And no be today dem start am.		This has always been true.
Another thing be sey, God favor fit make people get ' life wey no get end, ' because Jesus Christ die for us. - Rom.		Actually, God 's undeserved kindness can lead to " everlasting life through Jesus Christ. " - Rom.
Anyhow e be, person fit still enter trap. Person fit start to dey like property well well, e go want dey buy more more things whether e need am or e no need am; whether e get the money to buy am or e no get.		In any case, herein lies a real danger - becoming ensnared by materialism, wanting more and more things, whether we need them or not and whether we can afford them or not.
As we dey endure the problem, we go dey learn how we go take dey show all this better character more more. This one go help us be better Christian.		As we endure the trial, we will learn to show these qualities even more, and in that way we will improve our Christian personality.
Because of the favor wey get, e dey forgive our sin. But na only when we repent and we try well well make we no do am again, e go fit forgive us.		Because of 's undeserved kindness, we have our sins forgiven, provided we repent and continue to put up a hard fight against our sinful inclinations.
Bible talk sey make we use all our mind love and make we love our neighbor as we take love ourself.		A Christian 's heart is important, for we are commanded to love with our whole heart and to love our neighbor as ourselves.
But Federico come do wetin bad.		Then Federico took a false step.
But Jesus teach people sey make dem dey make peace, even if e be like sey na dem go lose.		In contrast, Jesus taught people to seek peace, even if such a course would seem detrimental to their own interests.
But as we reach house, we see one big surprise.		Then we came home to a surprise.
But e still take time train people wey go sabi teach and wey go be overseer for congregation.		However, he took time to train others to be shepherds and teachers.
But elders fit still help us think about other things wey Bible talk about the matter.		Yet, there may be other Bible principles to take into consideration, which an elder might help us to analyze.
But when the kingdom of Rehoboam don dey strong, e do bad thing.		When his kingship was firmly established, however, Rehoboam did something unexpected.
Dem fit make sacrifice give. So e fit be sey Esau still make sacrifice sometimes. ( Gen.		Esau lived in patriarchal times, and he may even occasionally have had the privilege of offering sacrifices.
Dem get where dem suppose do reach. Dem need to know sey na only get the right to give dem law wey correct, wey dem need, and wey make sense.		They must recognize that God has the ultimate authority to impose what he determines to be just, necessary, and reasonable limits.
Dem no allow dem dey gather together for meeting. But for Sunday, December 18, 2011, e pass 78,000 Witness wey gather together for one special program. Dem gather for one of the stadium wey big pass for the city of Johannesburg for South Africa.		However, on Sunday, December 18, 2011, it was a wonderful sight to see over 78,000 of our brothers of different races from South Africa and neighboring countries packed into the largest stadium in the city of Johannesburg to enjoy a spiritual program.
Dem want make dem dey eat the king food.		Even their diet was set for them.
E be like sey Joseph dey around when Jesus die because e first Pilate know sey Jesus don die.		It seems that Joseph was present when Jesus died.
E clear sey this kind people no fit comot war, bad things, sickness, and poverty. Na only God Kingdom go fit comot dem.		Clearly, such forces cannot eliminate war, crime, disease, and poverty - only God 's Kingdom can.
E come tell dem sey: " Dem write am sey, ' Na prayer house dem go call my house, ' but una don turn am to where thief dey stay. " ' - Matt.		And he said to them: ' It is written, " My house will be called a house of prayer, " but you are making it a cave of robbers. ' " - Matt.
E come tell im husband wey still be unbaptized publisher like am.		She told her husband, who like her was an unbaptized publisher.
E de carry us go Baptist church every Sunday.		She took us to the Baptist church every Sunday.
E good to remember sey since na all of us dey make mistake, we fit do wetin go make other people vex.		It is also wise to remember that since we all have faults, we may be offending others.
E make sure sey dem come serve God the way im want. E still choose ' the slave wey get sense and wey dem fit trust ' make e dey direct wetin dey happen for organization. ( Matt.		He also appointed a " faithful and discreet slave " to take the lead in directing the work in the earthly courtyards of the great spiritual temple.
E no dey easy for person to get strong faith for.		It is not always easy to stay faithful to.
E no dey serve God with the mind sey, ' make e no be like sey I no want serve God. '		He does not just go through the motions of worshipping.
E really surprise us sey dem fine well well, get different different part and everything for their body complete like the animals wey we dey see today.		It struck us that these extinct animals were beautiful, complex, and complete - no less so than what we can see today.
E sey: ' Una hide the key wey go make people know God.		You took away the key of knowledge, " Jesus told them.
Even the man wey talk sey " Chinese people no dey sell, " come still sell im own give us.		We were even able to buy the property from the man who had said that " Chinese do not sell. "
FOR May 1910, Brother Charles T.		It was May 1910.
For 1939, my papa sick well well and e die. E pain me no be small. But before e die, e tell my mama sey: " Na the truth be this.		Sadly, in 1939 he became very ill, but before he died he told my mother: " This is the truth.
For May 2007, Daniel and Miriam stop their work. Dem come go preach for Panama, one country wey dem don go before.		In May 2007, Daniel and Miriam quit their jobs and set out for Panama, a country they had visited before.
For example, for year 2001, Pope John Paul II talk for letter sey: " I don dey talk since sey make church people dey go preach and I go still talk am again.		For example, early in the year 2001, Pope John Paul II stated in a letter: " Over the years, I have often repeated the summons to the new evangelization. I do so again now.
For example, wetin you go do if you, your family person or your friend no come be elder, ministerial servant or pioneer for congregation again?		For example, what will you do if you or someone you love loses a cherished privilege of service?
Go check pp. 58 - 59 for our book " Bearing Thorough Witness " About God 's Kingdom.		See " Bearing Thorough Witness " About God 's Kingdom, pp. 58 - 59.
How Daniel take know?		How Daniel came to know.
How we take know?		Absolutely!
I do any work wey dem sey make I do. For example, I wrap magazine wey dem want send go congregation. Na me dey care for the order wey people make for book, and I still work for reception.		I wrapped magazines for mailing, processed subscriptions, and served as a receptionist; I did whatever I was asked to do.
I don get stroke two times, but I still de serve as elder for congregation.		Today, after surviving two major strokes, I still serve as a congregation elder.
I still want sabi wetin dey Bible, na im I come pray sey mek God help me.		I still wanted to understand the Bible, and I asked God to help me.
I tell myself sey no fit love me.		I still felt that loving me was too much to expect of.
If we get word wey go make people strong, why e no good to close mouth?		Why should we never hold back from encouraging others?
If you want know more, check " Questions From Readers " wey dey May 15, 2015, Watchtower, pp.		For more information, see " Questions From Readers " in The Watchtower, May 15, 2015, pp.
If young people plan wetin dem want do for, e show sey dem value wetin e don do for dem and the love wey e show dem.		The primary reason for setting spiritual goals is to show how grateful we are for his love and for what he has done for us.
don give us Bible, im Organization and preaching work so that we go continue to be like soft clay.		God 's provisions to help us remain like soft clay include his Word, the Christian congregation, and the field ministry.
na the God wey dey give real freedom. So how we fit use our freedom well to make happy? We go talk about am for the next topic.		The following article will consider how we can wisely use the freedom we now have, so that we can honor, the God of true freedom, forever.
tell Israel people sey make dem use copper take make the tabernacle ( where dem dey worship am ). Dem still use copper take build temple for Jerusalem. ( Ex.		directed that this shiny metal be used in the construction of the tabernacle and later in the temple in Jerusalem.
Job na man wey get faith.		The faithful man Job.
John praise Gaius because e dey allow the brothers wey visit congregation stay im house, even though sey e no know dem before.		John praised Gaius for hosting the brothers even though they were strangers to him.
Like that native doctor, many people dey enter organization every year. Dem see sey people get the peace wey dem don dey find.		Like that man, thousands of people every year find in the Christian congregation the peace that they so desperately desire.
Make husband and wife wey get serious problem for their marriage go meet elders for congregation make dem help dem.		Christian marriage mates who have serious problems should seek help from the elders.
Many young people for organization dey try well well, and we suppose praise dem.		Thousands of young ones in congregations all over the world deserve warm praise.
Michael enter motor with im family and other Witness people wey dey go convention. The motor dey carry dem from Bosnia go Serbia.		Milan, his brother, his parents, and a number of other were riding on a bus from Bosnia to Serbia.
My congregation for Adelaide, get 12 anointed Christian wey they old pass me.		Our congregation in Adelaide included 12 older anointed Christians.
My mama vex, and tell me say e no want see me again with Witness people.		She was horrified and barred me from associating with the.
My papa and mama first separate, and after, they end the marriage.		My parents separated and then divorced.
Na Lead Israel People, Feb.		Mar. Give Honor to Whom It Is Due, Mar.
Na around 600,000 pastor dey for the different different church for United States. But Witness people wey dey that country na around 1.2 million.		There are approximately 600,000 members of the clergy in the various denominations in the United States, where there are some 1,200,000 of.
Na the first time be this wey I really see sey don give me wetin I need because I dey put im Kingdom first.		This was the first time I clearly saw that provided a necessity for me because I was putting Kingdom interests first.
Na true sey we really get freedom to choose, even when God no want make we do some things?		Is having free will with limits real freedom?
No dey make am hard people to come beg you to forgive dem. This one go show sey you dey pity people.		One way to do so is to make it easy for others to seek your forgiveness.
Or if the pikin small well well, dem fit use the picture take explain am for dem.		Or they use this feature as a basis for teaching simple ideas to very young children.
Other Catholic sisters for there come open the room for me. But as dem come see sey I no gree change my mind, dem come still lock me for the room again.		The nuns let me out of the cell, but when they realized that I still wanted to leave the convent, they locked me in the cell again.
People go need to learn wetin Bible talk for the language wey dem dey speak. Na im make dem come register Zion 's Watch Tower Tract Society for 1884 and na Brother Russell come be president.		To help them disseminate Bible truth in various languages, Zion 's Watch Tower Tract Society was legally incorporated in 1884, with Brother Russell as president.
People wey dey find work plenty pass work wey dey. Sometimes, people feel sey dem need to do overtime, even if the money no reach anything.		As a result of fierce competition for a limited number of jobs, many employees feel compelled to work more hours, sometimes for less pay.
Peter come start to change.		Peter began to change.
Rehoboam gain anything from wetin e do?		What was the result for Rehoboam?
So, how we go fit help people when they want listen? We go fit help them only when we continue to preach.		Therefore, by faithfully continuing in our preaching work, we make sure that we will be available to give comfort to people at a time when they may be ready to accept it.
So dem need wetin go give dem mind, and help dem know wetin to do.		They faced " fiery trials. "
Some of dem fit be bad character wey we get or sey we no too like to dey preach.		Or in your case, it may be the need to keep enduring, even though you have poor health or are lonely.
Sometimes, when dem dey with congregation wey near our place, dem go sey make I come join dem preach.		When they were serving congregations nearby, they sometimes invited me to go with them in the ministry.
That place explain how God dey use im spirit dey make correct Christians know whether dem dey go heaven.		That key passage explains how Christians know that they are anointed - holy spirit bears witness with their spirit.
The good character of your children fit make your husband or wife come serve.		The children 's good conduct might help to draw the unbelieving parent to true worship.
The next day around seven o 'clock for morning, they go go that place again.		The next morning, at seven o 'clock, they are back in the square.
The organization wey dey heaven dey control the one wey dey earth.		In turn, the heavenly part of his organization influences the earthly part.
The truth be sey, e go suffer some things till e die. ( 2 Sam.		In fact, some of those consequences would stay with David for the rest of his life.
Think well about this two question:		Questions for reflection:
This na because many people no understand Bible.		Because many have little or no understanding of the Bible.
This one don help am know sey value am.		This has helped her to try to remain as positive as possible.
We change some people name for this topic.		Some of the names in this article have been changed.
We get the mind sey because of wetin Jesus don do for us, go forgive us and we go still be Im friend.		Should we hesitate to avail ourselves of the benefits of the ransom because we feel unclean or sinful?
Wetin Boaz later tell Ruth show sey e really dey feel for Ruth because Ruth na stranger.		The conversation that ensued shows that Boaz was clearly concerned about Ruth and her precarious situation as a foreigner.
Wetin I do? "		And for what? "
Wetin Jesus mean when e talk sey ' No think sey I carry peace come? '		In saying " Do not think I came to bring peace, " Jesus meant that some of his listeners needed to think about the consequences of following him.
Wetin make our hope be like helmet?		How is hope like a helmet?
Wetin we fit do to get better result when we dey preach for open place?		How can public witnessing prove to be effective?
Wetin we go do if we want make God spirit continue to dey direct us?		What do we need to do to move forward as a spiritual person?
Wetin we go learn for this topic?		What will we discuss in this article?
Wetin you fit do to help your children learn how to control theirself?		How can you help your children to develop self - control?
When e reach house one day, e come see the man lie down for im bed.		One day, she returned home and found the man lying on her bed.
When evening reach, another 2,000 people come join the first people. Na boat, motor and train dem take come.		By evening, 2,000 more arrived by boat, car, and special trains.
When we dey face this kind wahala, e good make we dey use better mind help each other.		To support one another in our suffering or adversity, we need to have genuine compassion.
When you come dey think about wetin you learn for Bible, small small wetin you learn come dey plenty and you come sabi Bible.		When you began to study the Bible with one of 's, you may have felt like a prospector who pans a rich deposit of gold.
Whether we just baptize or e don tey wey we baptize, we must ' continue to dey correct our way. ' - 2 Cor.		Whether we got baptized recently or have been in the truth for many years, we must " continue. to be readjusted. " - 2 Cor.
Why? Because you love dem and you dey try to do wetin go make dem happy.		Such conflict can make you feel guilty, especially because you love your relatives dearly and have always tried to please them.
Why e good make other people for congregation still dey read the book dem wey be for young people?		Why should adult Christians be interested in information for young people?
Why e good to ask dem?		and studied together the brochure Your Family Can Be Happy. Why?
Why e make sense to believe sey people go dey do things well?		Why is it reasonable to conclude that 's worshippers would be organized?
Why many people think sey we go fit solve our problem by ourself?		Why may the idea that man can solve his own problems sound appealing?
Why young people wey dey serve need strong mind?		Why do Christian youths need courage?
Yes o, don really bless me. - Ps.		Yes, has richly rewarded me. - Ps.
now ) talk sey: " E clear sey this convention na something wey dem no go ever forget. The convention dey special because e go make people preach well well for Mexico. "		Beyond question, " The Golden Age stated, " this convention will go down in history as an event of outstanding importance in the onward march of Truth in the republic of Mexico. "
Wetin fit help us choose wetin good?		What are some helpful guidelines for making wise decisions?
Even if we no know when great tribulation go start, wetin we dey sure of?		Although we do not know when the great tribulation will begin, what can we be sure of?
How our condition today take be like Noah own?		How are we in a situation similar to Noah 's?
Na only young people dey face wahala?		What challenges are not unique to young people?
When wheat grow, wetin e de produce?		What is produced by a wheat stalk?
The brothers and sisters understand from e greeting say, all of them be slave of God, even James. Because of this one, e no hard them to accept the advice wey James give them.		His readers no doubt found it easier to accept his advice when they saw from his greeting that they had the same standing before God.
How Satan catch some angels?		How may Satan have used bait to trap his angelic brothers?
Apart from that one, we must do wetin David tell Solomon if we want make like how we take dey serve am. E tell am sey make e ' use all im mind serve. ' ( 1 Chron.		Yet, as David told Solomon, for our daily worship to be acceptable to, we have to " serve him with a complete heart. "
Even though sey Nazi Gestapo and Communist Stasi for East Germany suffer am well well for many years, Rudolf still put im mind for that paradise.		Despite many years of cruel persecution, first by the Nazi Gestapo and later by the Communist Stasi of East Germany, Rudolf maintained his strong faith in an earthly paradise.
Na better example be that!		What a good example!
People wey dey serve God today still get am.		The same is true of God 's people today.
From that day, the person don be ' own. '		From that day forward, ' he belongs to. '
We know our enemy, we know the style wey e de use, and wetin e get for mind.		We know our enemy, his tactics, and his intentions.
And still dey happy if you dey do wetin e like even if your people no be Witness. ( 1 Pet.		The same is true if you are in a religiously divided household but stick to your spiritual routine.
Joseph no let this one make am tire to serve God; and e no carry am for mind sey e go do dem back.		Joseph did not give in to discouragement; nor was he so filled with resentment that he sought revenge.
For everything wey make, na Jesus be the first.		transferred the life of his very first creation from heaven to earth.
About 20 years before this time, Brother Russell don plan to travel from America go other part of the world. Why? Na because e want make the good news spread reach everywhere for the earth.		Some 20 years earlier, seeking the best way to spread the good news worldwide, Brother Russell had decided to make a series of tours outside of America.
After e just baptize, Jesus start to preach ' the good news about God Kingdom ' for place wey far and near.		Immediately after his baptism, Jesus proclaimed " the good news of the Kingdom of God " far and wide.
All of us go come free like person wey dem comot heavy load for im head!		The relief will be immense!
And e happy well well sey, im mama don start to serve again.		She is also very happy to be once again serving alongside her mother in the congregation.
And make we no forget sey ' person wey dey quick vex dey cause fight, person wey sabi vex dey do many many bad things. ' - Prov.		And it is good for us to remember that " a man prone to anger stirs up strife; anyone disposed to rage commits many transgressions. " - Prov.
And quick quick, the girl stand up.		And she did, immediately.
As e be for Ezekiel time wey the mark no dey show for front of person head, na so e still be for our time.		In Ezekiel 's day, no one received a literal mark on his forehead. The same is true today.
As family head, Abraham dey do im work well and Sarah show better example of wife wey dey respect im husband as head.		Abraham took the proper lead in his family, and Sarah set a fine example by submitting to her husband 's headship.
As we want talk about this topic, make we remember people wey we dey invite come Memorial.		Currently, as we are considering this article as a congregation, we are striving to invite as many people as possible to the Memorial of Christ 's death.
Before go comot Satan and this wicked world, wetin we suppose get for mind to do?		What should be our determination?
Brother Miller na person wey no dey fear and e dey quick make friend.		By nature, he was very outgoing and not easily intimidated.
But, e just be like sey I dey tell am: ' Your love no fit reach my side.		Yet, I was, in effect, saying to him: ' Your love is not great enough to reach me.
But I come see sey Catholic priests dey sleep with the sisters wey dey stay the church.		However, I witnessed shocking sexual immorality between priests and nuns.
But e dey their mind to enter full - time service again. This one come make dem sell their business, their boat, and other property.		However, their desire to reenter the full - time ministry compelled them to sell the business, their boat, and other material items.
But the person wey big pass among una must be una servant.		But the greatest one among you must be your minister.
But to sabi the truth about this matter, we go check wetin Bible talk.		However, to understand this matter properly, we must turn to God 's Word, the Bible.
Corinna happy well well sey e fit go the meeting.		Corinna was so happy that she had made that journey.
Dem no want make God rule dem again.		They are the direct results of the rebellion against on the part of three wicked individuals - Satan, Adam, and Eve.
E come dey study Bible and e come start to preach.		He studied the Bible and started preaching.
E fit no easy for people to leave work wey dem don dey do for young people.		Those in positions of authority may not find it easy to delegate to younger ones.
E get some things wey person go get for mind.		A number of factors need to be borne in mind.
E give human being law wey go direct dem.		He made both natural laws and moral laws to ensure that everything functions harmoniously.
E reach like three years wey I take work for there.		I was privileged to serve there for about three years.
E tell Judah people make dem serve.		Like his father, Jehoshaphat encouraged the people to search for.
Elders fit use correction take help people for congregation. But dem need to follow the correct way wey Bible sey make dem do am.		Building one another up may involve giving counsel, but here again, elders should follow the example given in the Bible about how to give counsel in an encouraging way.
Even if space dey Diotrephes house, brothers and sisters no go want stay with am.		No doubt, faithful Christians would not have wanted to stay with Diotrephes even if that were possible.
Even though sey small fear dey im body, e still tell the teacher to allow am correct wetin the book talk.		Although he felt hesitant, he asked permission to correct these false claims, and the teacher agreed.
Even with all this one, Hannah no regret sey e do wetin e promise God.		Even so, Hannah had no regrets about keeping her vow to God.
For everything wey we dey do, e good make we let direct us, make we trust am and allow am help us do wetin we no fit do.		In all circumstances, we need to lean on for guidance, trusting in him to support us and do for us what we cannot do for ourselves.
For example, we go ask person sey, " You know anybody for here wey want sell cow? "		For example, we would ask, " Is there anyone here who wants to sell a cow? "
God people come dey gather together for small small group, but some of dem no fit gather.		Faithful anointed servants of God had to meet together in discreet groups - if they could meet at all.
How dey look the good thing wey we dey do for other people?		To what does liken our kindly giving to others?
How Noah take know?		How Noah came to know.
How person fit know sey e don dey overdo?		When might we start to think or act immodestly?
How we fit continue to get strong love for?		How can we keep our love for strong?
How you fit copy Asa example?		How can you imitate Asa in serving?
I don dey reach 80 years now, and I dey happy when I see other brothers, wey I senior dey do the work wey I dey do before for congregation.		Now that I am nearing 80 years of age, it gives me great pleasure to see younger men with whom I have worked over the years take on the responsibilities that I used to have.
I even work small for the people wey buy our radio station. Their station name na WPOW.		For a time, I even worked for the new owners of the radio station, which used the call letters WPOW.
I give my life and I baptize for April 1954. Later, the woman, im husband and im two son still baptize.		In April 1954, I symbolized my dedication to by water baptism.
If we follow their example, e go make us dey talk wetin go make people strong for our family and congregation and love go dey.		Following their lead will help all of us to make our home and the local Kingdom Hall places of love and encouragement.
If we stop to worry and we use our mind do wetin God tell us, e go show sey we really want do wetin we don promise.		If we overcome our feelings and willingly obey our God, we prove that we are faithful to our promise.
If you dey study Bible, you fit still see how to do other things wey go make happy.		A study of the Bible may also help you to notice ways that you can improve in your service to God.
Isaiah 32: 17 talk say: " The result of wetin really correct na peace. And wetin really correct go bring rest of mind and protection forever. "		Isaiah 32: 17 says: " The result of true righteousness will be peace, and the fruitage of true righteousness will be lasting tranquillity and security. "
Jesus promise people wey dey follow am sey: ' This na wetin my Father want, sey, make everybody wey know the Son and wey dey show sey e get faith for the Son, get life wey no go end. '		Jesus promised his followers: " This is the will of my Father, that everyone who recognizes the Son and exercises faith in him should have everlasting life. "
Just give me the food wey go belleful me. "		Just let me consume my portion of food. "
Make we think am like this. Many people like to chop cake and sweet sometimes. But, if na only cake and sweet dem dey always chop, e fit make dem sick.		Think of this comparison: Many of us love to eat a dessert once in a while, but we realize that a steady diet of cakes and candies will harm our health.
Many people think sey na true.		This worldly idea may sound appealing to many people.
Na im make Bible talk sey: ' Plan dey fail when advice no dey, but wetin you plan go get head if plenty people advise you. ' - Prov.		The Bible tells us: " Plans fail when there is no consultation, but there is accomplishment through many advisers. " - Prov.
Na im make we suppose dey do wetin we promise even after we baptize.		Thereafter, we want to continue living up to our dedication in faithful service to God.
Na the same thing happen to many of servant wey Paul write about for 1 Corinthians 6: 9 - 11.		That was true of many in Corinth to whom Paul wrote.
No. Dem get joy because dem do wetin want even though sey dem suffer dem.		But as servants of God, they found true joy in keeping their integrity to him.
One congregation wey dey where dem dey call Izmir for Turkey, still write sey: " One man wey dey work for taxi park, go meet one of the elders.		A congregation in the city of Izmir wrote: " A man working at a taxi stand approached a local elder and asked, ' What 's going on?
Read am well, explain am, use example, and show the people how dem fit use wetin dey the verse for their life.		So select your key scriptures carefully, and take time to read, explain, illustrate, and apply them well.
Satan talk sey: ' Na everything wey person get e go give to take save im life. '		Satan said: " A man will give everything that he has for his life. "
Serge sey: " When we see sey our pikin no dey do well again, we come go back to our former congregation. "		When we realized that this situation had hindered our son from making spiritual advancement, " explains Serge, " we decided to move back to our former congregation. "
Since e want do more for work, e come stop the work, come start to pioneer.		Yet, she wanted to do more for, so she quit her job and started to pioneer.
So e no easy for person to get God spirit.		However, we live in a dangerous environment.
The apostle and elder dem come choose the correct thing because Peter tell dem wetin e use im two eye see.		Peter 's eyewitness testimony was very helpful to the first - century governing body in making a decision.
The resurrection go be turn by turn, no be anyhow. E go really make sense!		We can trust that the earthly resurrection will likewise proceed in an orderly manner.
The things wey happen to me that time be like training wey go help me fit do other work wey organization go give me.		I have always viewed those early experiences as training for future assignments.
The truth be sey e no get any marriage wey problem no dey.		Of course, there has never been a perfect marriage.
The way people take different from people wey no dey serve am dey clear more more.		The distinction between those serving God and those not serving him is becoming increasingly evident.
This one come make am like the work wey God give am as im servant, to tell other people God word.		In that way he developed a heartfelt appreciation for the privilege of having God 's name called on him.
This one quick make my mind strong. "		This rapidly built up my confidence. "
This one really show sey e good make we learn to dey think like Jesus.		For these reasons, it becomes clear how important it is to learn to think as Jesus does.
Use the " study guides " wey we talk about before.		Are the study guides found on jw.org available in your language?
We dey always go meeting and preaching together.		Together, we regularly attended meetings and shared in the ministry.
We dey do everything wey we fit do to obey for anywhere we dey. Whether na for house, congregation, work or school. ( Prov.		And we make every effort to comply with those standards at home, in the congregation, on the job, at school - everywhere.
We dey get the help wey we need when we need am ( Check paragraph 13 )		Being helped at the right time ( See paragraph 13 )
We fit dey think sey e better if another person just tell us wetin we go do. But that one fit make us no enjoy one of the blessing wey we suppose get if we choose by ourself.		While it might seem easier to have someone else make decisions for us, doing so would rob us of one of the great blessings of free will.
We know sey convention get time wey e take dey start for morning and afternoon.		We know that every convention session has a precise time to start.
We later come dey call am Our Kingdom Ministry.		Later called Our Kingdom Ministry.
We need to show sey we get strong mind even for congregation.		There is also a need to show courage in the congregation.
We really happy to work with our brothers and sisters wey dey Philippines!		What a delight it has been to serve with our brothers in the Philippines!
Wetin Better Pass Gold ( sense wey God dey give ), Aug.		Better Than Gold ( divine wisdom ), Aug.
Wetin Bible talk about money and poverty?		What does the Bible say about riches and poverty?
Wetin be some of the bad character wey we need to pull trowey?		What are some practices that must be put away and kept away?
Wetin fit make us change wetin we don choose?		What might lead us to change a decision?
Wetin go help us do wetin good for any matter?		What will help us make wise decisions?
Wetin go help us no think sey we better pass other people?		How can we take the lead in showing honor to others?
Wetin some of God prophet talk really happen.		What the prophets had foretold came to pass.
Wetin you think about this matter?		How do you view the matter of free will?
When Governing Body talk new thing wey go make elders change how dem take dey do some things, make dem change am. Make dem no feel sey brothers go stop to respect dem. Instead, e go show sey dem get open mind and dem know where dem suppose do reach.		And if they are reasonable, modest men, they will not fear losing respect if new, relevant information comes to their attention that indicates a need to reconsider what they had already decided.
When dem release seven of us wey be Witness from the prison for 1951, dem still release the professor.		When we were released in early 1951, he too was released.
When dem uproot tree go plant for another place, e no dey easy for am to grow. But once dem plant am again, e go start to grow new root		Trees that are relocated experience stress, but when they are transplanted, they grow new roots
You Wear the Complete Soldier Uniform?		Is Your Suit of Armor Complete?
Your name dey always make belle sweet dem well well. The good thing wey you dey do dey make dem praise you. ' - Ps.		They rejoice in your name all day long, and in your righteousness they are exalted. " - Ps.
magazine of some month wey don pass. I come see one topic wey talk sey dem use Aramaic write Daniel. '		magazines from the previous months, I found an article explaining that Daniel was written in Aramaic. "
So everybody that time get wetin dem fit give, both the ones wey get money well well and the ones wey poor well well. - Luke 21: 1 - 4.		Thus, people of all walks of life - from the very wealthy to the very poor - had a share. - Luke 21: 1 - 4.
E even reach the northern ten - tribe for Israel, go meet people wey dey live for the mountain side for Ephraim.		He even went to the territory of the northern kingdom of Israel, to the mountainous region of Ephraim, " to bring them back to. "
This new arrangement no allow dem do some of the things wey dem dey do when the Law still dey.		Under it, some concessions in the Law were no longer allowed.
Which other thing go help us? Make we de beg make give us power.		Finally, we have to rely on for strength to face the issue.
Bible still promise us sey go protect us from Satan and im demons.		God 's Word also assures us that protects his people from Satan and his demons.
Na Jesus and the 144,000 wey go join am rule, go dey direct dem.		They will be directed by Christ and his 144,000 corulers.
God even tell us sey mek we dey pray for the people wey dey government so that we fit worship am without wahala.		God even tells us to pray about those who have authority so that we can worship him in peace.
How Paul take show sey e value the preaching work?		How did Paul demonstrate that he treasured his ministry?
How we fit take sabi preach well?		How can we become effective in the ministry?
Wetin apostle Paul talk sey we fit do?		What suggestion did the apostle Paul make?
For example, dem fit love their papa and mama, and dey respect dem.		For example, they may respect and love their parents.
You see some of the things wey Paul tell am? ( 1 ) E sey Timothy know the holy things wey dem write, ( 2 ) e come really believe sey the things wey dem teach am na true, and ( 3 ) e sey this things fit give am the sense wey go save am, because of the faith wey e get for Jesus Christ.		Note that Paul mentions ( 1 ) knowing the holy writings, ( 2 ) being persuaded to believe the things learned, and ( 3 ) becoming wise for salvation through faith in Christ Jesus.
E be like wetin Jesus talk for the story about one farmer.		It is as Jesus described in his illustration of the sower.
Na two of dem go choose the one wey dem go use.		It is a private decision.
Wetin be the two mountain?		What do the two mountains represent?
Abeg make wuna take - am. '		Please accept it. '
After three months, Apun come our house.		Apun visited us three months later.
And e still good make dem check wetin Bible talk, so that dem no go choose wetin go worry their conscience.		Then they should make a decision in such a way as to maintain a good conscience before God.
And na the Bible Students e carry for mind.		He meant the Bible Students in particular.
Anytime wey I do anything for am, e dey bless me hundred times pass wetin I do. "		Whenever I make personal sacrifices for him, he gives me back a hundredfold in blessings. "
Apostle John write sey: ' From the surplus wey im get, all of us don get favor wey no dey end. '		The apostle John wrote: " We all received from his fullness, even undeserved kindness upon undeserved kindness. "
Around 1940, Germany people send am go one camp to do hard work. After some years, USSR come still send am go another place to suffer am.		In the 1940 ' s, the Nazis had sent him to a concentration camp, and a few years later, Communists in the USSR had sent Eduard into exile.
Because Jos and Rose use all their life take serve, e make Tony and Wendy help dem.		Seeing that the elderly couple had given their entire lives to, Tony and Wendy were moved to take them in.
Before before, we be ' pikin wey suppose die ' and we get many bad character wey God no like, some even dey do like wicked animal!		As " children of wrath, " we once displayed many qualities that displease God, perhaps even some beastlike traits!
Beg to help you do wetin you dey learn from Bible.		Ask to help you to apply his Word.
Bible no talk sey na because their character different.		The account does not suggest that it was the result of a personality conflict.
Bible talk sey: ' no give Abraham any land to stay for inside.		How much land did Abraham inherit?
But, e get when e do wetin God no like.		Even so, on occasion he fell into serious sin.
But as time dey go, e come dey get mind small small.		In time, however, he gained confidence.
But e no carry wetin dem do am for mind. Na to fight for name and Im people, dey im mind.		But fighting for 's name and his people was more important than Jephthah 's personal feelings.
But e try different different way to see which one go good pass for Gavin so that e go gree study Bible.		Instead, he tried to find different ways to make Gavin feel more comfortable with discussing the Bible.
But for im time, many people for England no get Bible.		But in his time, the common people in England had virtually no access to the Bible.
But the person wey do wetin God want go remain forever. ' - 1 JOHN 2: 17.		The world is passing away and so is its desire, but the one who does the will of God remains forever. " - 1 JOHN 2: 17.
Dem be ' love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faith, mildness, self - control. '		Underlying many of them is your displaying " the fruitage of the spirit. love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faith, mildness, self - control. "
Dem dey do wetin Jesus talk and dem no dey take preaching play.		As Jesus instructed, they place a high priority on the preaching work.
Dem no take their work play and dem do the things wey go help dem continue to dey serve well.		Ten hardworking pioneers lived there, keeping up a good spiritual routine.
E dey sweet us as young men for congregation dey do more work for ( Check paragraph 9 )		It is satisfying to see younger men taking on greater responsibility ( See paragraph 9 )
E dey take care of us pass as we fit take care of ourself.		He cares for us better than we can care for ourselves.
E get one sister wey get one sickness wey dem dey call chronic fatigue syndrome. The sickness dey make body tire person everytime.		A sister whom we will call Kayla has had to battle with chronic fatigue syndrome, depression, and migraine headaches.
E go don easy for dem to fit trust am because im na elder wey dey follow wetin talk! - Heb.		How easy it must have been to have confidence in such a spiritually mature man! - Heb.
E no get age wey person suppose reach before e baptize.		There is no set age at which one should get baptized.
E no tey, dem come dey think about the food wey dem dey chop before for Egypt. Dem come dey complain about the food wey dey give dem, and dem even talk sey dem want go back to Egypt.		Within a few months of their deliverance, they began to long for the food and drink they once had in Egypt and complained about 's provisions, even wanting to return to Egypt.
Even though sey Jesus self don tire, e no sleep.		Jesus, though also physically tired, was fully awake in fervent prayer to his Father.
Even though sey the two of dem get different character, dem don use one mind work together well before this thing happen.		Despite the different personalities of Paul and Barnabas, they had been able to serve together before that event.
Even though sey the woman don nearly reach 80 years, e still baptize. Wetin we learn from this story?		Although in her late 70 ' s, she did not feel that baptism was unnecessary for her.
Even when Paul dey prison, e write many letter wey help different different congregation. ( Eph. 4: 1; Phil.		In fact, while he was a prisoner, Paul wrote several encouraging letters.
Everything dey, because you want am like that. ' - Rev.		They declare: " You are worthy, our God, to receive the glory and the honor and the power, because you created all things, and because of your will they came into existence and were created. " - Rev.
For example, small pikin no know the problem wey e dey if e follow bad friends. So e papa or mama go give law to protect the pikin. ( 1 Cor.		For example, a young child does not understand the dangers of bad associations, so a discerning parent will set rules to protect him.
For example, somebody write something for paper to tell us sey one of our pikin dey talk bad thing for Kingdom Hall.		For example, a parent wrote us a note informing us that one of our boys was saying bad words in the Kingdom Hall.
For example, when Israel people want build tabernacle, Moses tell dem sey make dem contribute.		In some cases, 's people contributed for specific projects.
For the prison, Joseph see chance talk to another prisoner about wetin dem do am.		Joseph had an opportunity to present his case to a fellow prisoner.
Get am for mind sey, if we carry body down, go see us as person wey fit change.		Remember, our Father will not consider us beyond hope if we humble ourselves before him.
God and im special Son don work together for many years, but that one no make God talk sey no need to praise am or make im mind strong when e come this earth.		God did not feel that because he and his dear Son had worked together for ages, there was no need to commend and encourage Jesus when he was on earth.
Governing Body dey do meeting before dem know wetin to do about matter.		The Governing Body makes important decisions collectively.
How take make Moses, Asa, and Nehemiah hand strong?		How did strengthen the hands of Moses, Asa, and Nehemiah?
How we go take show sey na all our mind we take dey serve?		What is involved in serving with " a complete heart "?
How we go take show sey we dey sorry for people?		So how can we manifest fitting compassion for our fellow man in practical ways?
I come start my own business.		Instead, I opened my own business.
I dey tell am everything wey dey worry me.		I regularly poured out my anxieties to him in prayer.
I happy as brothers wey they get love for help me		I cherish the help I received from faithful spiritual brothers
I know say the fight never end.		But I know that I need to keep on fighting.
If no help us, we no go fit comot bad things for our mind.		In fighting this battle, we need to rely on, not on ourselves.
If we check the other bad things wey dey this verse, we go see sey na the same rope still tie dem with long throat.		But when we look at the entire verse, it is not hard to see that all the other sinful practices mentioned are in some way connected with greediness and thus with idolatry.
If we get love and better mind, how e go take help us get wetin promise?		How can love and kindness protect us from being deprived of the prize?
Instead, e fit make the person life short.		Instead, overwhelming anxiety is more likely to shorten our life span.
James talk sey our condition just be like farmer wey plant something.		James compares our situation to that of a farmer.
holy spirit go fit help us continue to do well.		s spirit can help us to make the needed progress.
no dey force us to love and serve am.		does not coerce us into loving him and serving him.
Learn from their fine example. One of this fine example dey for Watchtower of April 15, 2012, page 18 - 21, under the topic " Seventy Years of Holding On to the Skirt of a Jew. " Make you de do plenty work for.		One fine example is the experience recounted in the article " Seventy Years of Holding On to the Skirt of a Jew, " published in The Watchtower of April 15, 2012, pages 18 - 21.
Like Joseph, make we no spoil people name because that one go make the matter worse.		As we learned from the example of Joseph, we want to avoid negative speech, knowing that such speech only makes a bad situation worse.
Make God work be number one thing for your life instead of money or property.		Sacrifice material things for spiritual benefits - not the other way around.
Make people wey papa and mama choose to help their children, dey always advise dem to respect their papa and mama. This people fit do this one if dem dey talk better things about the children papa and mama.		Of course, those whom the parents choose to help their children should always build up the young ones ' respect for their parents, speaking positively about them, not taking over their responsibility.
Make we know say, if things no de go the right way, na only God get the right to stop - am.		Fighting injustice was something to be left to God.
Make we no rush but make we take time know wetin want make we do so that our mind no go judge us.		We need balance as we seek to do God 's will and strive to have a good conscience.
Many people dey come from village wey far well well. Road no even dey for train or motor to pass reach some of the village.		Many delegates came from isolated rural villages, beyond the reach of trains or even roads.
Many refugee people come from country wey dem no dey let Witness people preach.		Many of today 's refugees come from countries where our preaching work is restricted.
Michael talk sey: ' My brother use all im mind forgive me. '		Michael says, " My brother genuinely forgave me. "
Na make am happen.		It has been accomplished by our God.
Na Sanhedrin be the court wey high pass for the Jews. Na there dem dey handle law matter.		The Sanhedrin functioned as the Jews ' supreme court and governing council for matters of Jewish law.
Na when the husband or the wife die.		The death of a loved one.
On Tuesday, people wey come the convention plenty well well sotey the hall no come reach. Dem come need to continue the convention for outside, for under big big tree wey get shade.		On Tuesday, the crowd grew so large that the remainder of the convention program had to be held outside under stately trees.
One of dem na Hushai. Bible call Hushai ' David friend. ' ( 2 Sam. 16: 16; 1 Chron.		One such associate was Hushai, whom the Bible refers to as " David 's friend. "
Person wey dey find gold dey work well well to get am. E fit be sey na so you still study Bible well well to fit get the better things wey dey inside.		Just as a prospector seeks to find precious deposits of alluvial gold, you may have been very diligent in searching for valuable spiritual riches.
Ruth na better example for this matter.		Ruth set a fine example in this regard.
Sing come out Open your mouth well		Open your mouth and throat wide
So, people wey dey serve for the whole world get peace, dem love each other, and dem get one mind. - Read Isaiah 65: 13, 14.		As a result, such worship unites people in happy congregations and a happy worldwide brotherhood. - Read Isaiah 65: 13, 14.
That time, dem no too dey tell papa and mama sey make dem dey study with their pikin.		At that time, Christian parents were given no special encouragement to study the Bible with their children.
That time, the people wey get the kind character wey Noah, Daniel, and Job get no too many, and dem survive. ( Ezek.		Only relatively few individuals reflected the qualities of Noah, Daniel, and Job and were thus marked for survival.
This one come make plenty brothers and sisters for Britain dey go other country dem like France, even though sey dem no sabi the language of the country.		Commendably, a steady stream of pioneers left Britain for such countries as France, despite having little or no knowledge of the language.
This promise go mek this young woman, wey be Jephthah pikin, no marry or born pikin.		His promise meant that she would never be able to marry or have any children.
This things fit no bad; because dem be normal things for life.		Such matters are not bad in themselves; they can be normal aspects of life.
Today, no be only fake religion Satan de use make people put hand for things wey they concern demons.		Today, he promotes interest in the demons not only through false religion but also through the entertainment industry.
Try follow am go preaching make you see how e take dey flow with people.		You might offer to work with the person in the ministry and see what you can learn.
Victoria talk sey:		Victoria relates:
We dey gather together any time wey we fit.		How we rejoiced to be together!
We dey live among people wey dey think of only wetin their body want.		Why is effort needed to develop and maintain spirituality?
We dey pray, dey sing and dey talk about am for our meeting, and this one dey mek happy		At our meetings, we pray to him, sing to him, and speak about him, and this makes happy
We go answer dem for the next topic.		They will be answered in the next article.
We know and we believe well well sey ' our God na one. ' So make we ready to do everything wey we fit do to make sure sey we worship only the way e want. - Heb.		If we clearly understand and firmly believe that " our God is one, " we will do all we can to give him exclusive devotion, serving him as he approves. - Heb.
We really want preach to plenty people for there.		We eagerly wanted to spread the good news there.
Wetin Saul do no make happy.		Consequently, rejected Saul from being king over Israel.
Wetin come happen?		The result?
Wetin this Bible verse talk fit help us answer question like: ' This thing wey I want do so, I go gain from am or na waste of time?		This principle can help us with many questions that could arise in our life, such as: ' Does this activity fall in the category of fleshly works?
What of sickness? Some sickness don get cure.		Disease: Some diseases have been controlled.
When Blossom, wey we talk about before want baptize, im papa and mama want dey sure sey e don ready.		When Blossom Brandt decided that she wanted to get baptized, her God - fearing parents wanted to be sure that she was ready to take the most important step of her life.
When you de preach for this kind place, you fit see say people de want collect our book when you smile and greet them well.		As you share in that form of service, you may find that people often react favorably to a pleasant smile and greeting.
Which advice Jesus give wey fit help us use love settle quarrel?		What counsel did Jesus give to help us handle differences in a spirit of love?
Which good thing Jesus sacrifice go do for people wey don die?		How does the ransom benefit humans who have died?
Which other way we fit show sey we like wetin Jesus do?		What is yet another way to show our gratitude for the ransom?
Why we go need to dey encourage each other more more as time dey go? And wetin we suppose dey do?		Why will mutual encouragement become more and more important in the days ahead, and what should we do?
paragraph 3 ) Check wetin dey the box " Why E Good Mek We No Dey Miss Our Meeting. "		paragraph 3 ) See the box " Reasons to Attend Meetings. "
The things wey e do make bless am, and go still bless am for front.		That led to 's blessing at the time, and no doubt more blessings await Moses in the future.
E fit be say Pilate de fear say Jesus go make people no obey Roman government.		Perhaps the governor feared that Jesus could cause political unrest, a principal concern throughout Pilate 's rule.
Another thing be say, when we really understand the truth for Bible, we go fit give correct answer to people wey they no like the truth. - 1 Pet.		In addition, when we have a clear understanding of the truths from God 's Word, we can confidently stand our ground and defend them against opposers. - 1 Pet.
How you take dey make chance to read Bible?		How do you make time for Bible reading?
Wetin one brother for Thailand learn about im work?		What valuable lesson did a brother in Thailand learn about his work?
Wetin papa and mama go continue to do?		What must parents continue to do?
Wetin we fit learn as we dey study Psalm 147?		What can we learn from studying Psalm 147?
Why one young sister no gree go university?		Why did one teenager choose not to go to a university?
But as the pikin de grow, e go fit de think deep about the things wey they write for Bible to guide us.		But as the child matures, his thinking ability develops, and he is able to reason on Bible - based principles.
Servant Dey Different From Other People		See the Difference in People
come still tell Abraham sey the pikin " go come from Isaac. "		Also, said that the blessing would come " through Isaac. "
But Abraham need to dey patient even after don promise am. Why?		Why did Abraham need to show patience?
But person no need to get everything for am to really happy.		But can a person be truly happy if he has only enough for his basic needs?
About 40 of us sleep for ground inside one tent wey 10 people suppose stay.		About 40 of us slept on the ground in a canvas tent designed to hold 10 people.
After, e come baptize and e join full time preaching work.		Later, he became a baptized Witness and a full - time evangelizer.
After the assembly, I use train travel go where the school dey for South Lansing, New York.		I then traveled by train to South Lansing, New York, where the school was located.
And e do wetin e fit do to help people.		He put first and expended himself tirelessly in behalf of others.
And we happy sey we get ' the peace wey God dey give. '		WE ALL want peaceful lives, free from anxiety.
Another thing be sey, dem go do wetin government talk sey make dem do, so far no be wetin God hate. ( Matt. 22: 21; Rom.		They have a responsibility to obey the law of the land when this does not conflict with 's law.
Around 16 years later, Paul come write letter give Timothy. E tell am sey: " Make you no stop to dey follow the things wey dem teach you. You come really believe am because you know who teach you. From small pikin you don know about the holy things wey dem write [ for the part of Bible wey dem use Hebrew write ].		Some 16 years after that, Paul wrote to Timothy: " Continue in the things that you learned and were persuaded to believe, knowing from whom you learned them and that from infancy you have known the holy writings [ the Hebrew Scriptures ], which are able to make you wise for salvation through faith in Christ Jesus. "
Around the mountains for there, we meet people wey them de speak Urdu language.		At the foot of lofty mountain ranges, we found many humble Urdu - speaking villagers who thirsted for Bible truth.
As take help Solomon, e fit still help us. E go give us strong mind so that we go fit do our work well, whether for family or for congregation. ( Isa.		As helped Solomon, he can help us to be courageous and to accomplish our work, both in our family and in the congregation.
As we dey worship together with our brothers and sisters, we dey do things like one family.		Serving shoulder to shoulder with our brothers and sisters promotes unity.
Ask people wey don dey serve tey tey, how don take help dem.		Ask longtime how has cared for them.
Because e try understand dem. If we do like Paul, we go know how to help our family people learn Bible. - 1 Cor.		The apostle Paul endeavored to understand " people of all sorts " in order to share the good news with them, and a similar approach can help us as well. - 1 Cor.
Because na only small time remain for am, e dey use different different style to make people stop to serve. - Rev.		However, knowing that he has only a short time left, Satan tries to turn people away from true worship, and he uses various means to do so. - Rev.
Because we dey do wetin Bible talk and obey everything wey organization sey make we do, we dey make all the congregation clean, get peace and one mind.		Because we stick to the Bible and comply with organizational instructions, we promote the cleanness, peace, and unity of the entire congregation.
Bible talk say: " Hate bad thing and like good thing. "		God 's Word says: " Hate what is bad, and love what is good. "
But, Jesus sacrifice do pass that one.		Still, the ransom accomplished even more than that.
But, many people dey marry and born children, even though sey some kind problem dey follow am. ( 1 Cor.		Still, by and large, people marry and raise children in spite of the challenges such choices bring.
But even now, God dey bless im people.		But even now there are rewards.
But from wetin we don see, Joseph go don let people know sey im na Christian.		In the light of the foregoing, however, there is a strong likelihood that he openly declared himself to be a Christian.
But we get some enemy wey want make us comot mind for wetin we dey do. Dem want spoil our mind, make us tire, fall, and make us no get wetin God don promise us.		Today, we are in the race for life, and we face opponents who want to distract us, trip us up, beat us down, and snatch away our joy and future rewards.
Children wey don stop to serve ( Check paragraph 16 )		Wayward children ( See paragraph 16 )
Dem dey call the stone pearl. This topic go help us see wetin we fit learn from the story.		This article will help us to apply a lesson that Jesus taught in the illustration about a merchant seeking pearls.
Dem sey other people for the motor tell dem wetin happen. The two of dem tell Michael and im brother to enter their motor because dem no dey check children paper.		The two told Milan and his brother to get into their car to cross the border, as the children 's papers were not being checked.
E be like sey e take Noah 40 or 50 years to build the ark finish.		Even when building the ark, which may have taken as long as 40 or 50 years, Noah kept his spiritual focus.
E come go be slave for Egypt, even if no be wetin e want.		Against his will, he was taken to Egypt.
E dey make sure sey e protect people for this wicked world. E no dey take this im work play. ( Jer.		As such, he works diligently so that God 's people as a whole may dwell in security despite living in the midst of this hostile world.
E first ask Peter whether e know sey God get name. E come tell am make e read Psalm 83: 18 wey talk about God name.		First, he asked Peter if he knew that God has a personal name and asked him to read it directly from the Bible at Psalm 83: 18.
E fit be sey Silas self get the right wey Rome person get. - Acts 16: 37.		Apparently, Silas too was a Roman citizen. - Acts 16: 37.
E fit no be all of dem wey talk am as e be for here, but dem still promise each other for front.		Others may not have said these exact words, but they still made a vow before God.
E remember wetin happen, e sey: " E no hard me to see sey many people no get my time.		He recalls: " I soon realized that most people did not care about me.
E talk about one sister, e name na Phoebe. Paul tell the brothers say make they " welcome this sister in the Lord the way they suppose welcome holy people. "		He mentioned Phoebe, " our sister, " and urged the brothers to " welcome her in the Lord in a way worthy of the holy ones and give her whatever help she may need. "
E talk say: " Before, I de feel say no near me and e no want be my Friend. "		She says, " I have often felt that isn 't close to me and that he doesn 't want to be my Friend. "
E talk sey: " Small small, e come master me.		He relates: " Slowly, I became addicted.
E tell us say Bethel no de take married people that time.		He told us that Bethel was not accepting married couples at that time.
Everybody for heaven and earth go be one family. - Eph.		Universal peace will be restored. - Eph.
For the end, na the pikin go choose whether e go serve.		In the end, of course, children have to develop their own faith.
For verse 19, God tell Israel people to choose wetin dem want.		Verse 19 describes the choice that God gave to the Israelites.
How Perrine feel about wetin dem do?		How does she feel about their decision?
How we fit show sey we dey gentle and we still dey patient?		In what practical way can we show mildness and patience?
I dey do wetin this place talk? How I take dey do am?		In what ways am I already applying in my life the principle contained in this portion of God 's Word?
I go give half of my property to poor people. And Lord, wetin I use wayo collect from person, I go give am back four times. '		The half of my belongings, Lord, I am giving to the poor, and whatever I extorted from anyone, I am restoring four times over. "
I no come believe again sey " saint " or hellfire dey, and I no come believe sey priest dey fit forgive people sin.		I no longer believed in " saints " or in hellfire, and I did not think that a priest could forgive sins.
IF YOU dey waka for one road and ground come draw person wey dey your front fall, you no go sofri waka pass that place?		IF YOU saw someone slip and fall on a path, would you not be careful when walking on that same pathway?
If elder advise you, maybe about the style of your dress, you go take their advice as wetin God take dey show sey e love you?		If they come to you to offer kind, loving help, such as about your style of dress, will you accept their counsel as an expression of God 's love for you?
If our person die, why we dey sure sey fit make our mind come down? na our Papa.		Why can we be sure that understands a grieving person 's need for comfort?
If we dey talk better word wey dey make people strong every time, we go see sey other people go dey tell us better word wey go make us strong. - Luke 6: 38.		We will very likely find that if we make it a habit to be encouraging, people will encourage us in return. - Luke 6: 38.
Jesus even face partial.		Jesus himself was subjected to prejudice.
Jesus resurrect one widow pikin. E do this miracle near one place wey dem dey call Nain for Galilee.		It is unlikely that Martha, living near Jerusalem, observed Jesus resurrect the son of a widow near Nain in Galilee.
Make e sweet us to dey preach the good news give people; na that one concern us. Na go judge. "		Let 's just be happy giving people the good news and leave the judging to. "
Me and my mama, and me and my papa		With my mother, and later with my father
Moses want make other people still enjoy to do this kind work for, no be only am.		Disclaiming honor for himself, Moses expressed his desire that the same spiritual gifts be shared by all of 's servants.
My other three pikin James, Jerry, and Steven with their wife dem, dey support the preaching work for sign language for different different way		My sons James, Jerry, and Steven along with their wives support the preaching work in sign language in various ways
Na 83 years I dey now, and I still be elder.		I am now 83 years old and continue to serve as an elder.
Na dem still dey choose circuit overseer, and circuit overseer go come choose who go be elder for congregation.		In addition, it appoints circuit overseers, who in turn appoint congregation elders.
Na true sey na you go choose wetin you go do, but make we no forget sey God go judge us for wetin we do.		Yes, this is a personal decision, but we should bear in mind that God holds us responsible for the decisions we make.
No get double mind at all. ' - JAS.		Keep asking in faith, not doubting at all. " - JAS.
ONE sister for Canada talk sey: " As I dey let God spirit direct me, I don dey happy pass before.		BEING a spiritual person has made me happier, and it has helped me deal successfully with daily trials, " says a sister in Canada.
Other people go see the good things wey you de do, and e go make many people praise. - Matt.		Others will see your fine works, and many will be moved to give glory to our Father. - Matt.
Paul and Silas come preach to the officer and im family.		Their appreciation for the truths they were learning about Jesus prompted them to take what step?
People dey like to prepare well well for their visitor ( Check paragraph 20 )		Hosts usually prepare well for their guests ( See paragraph 20 )
People for this world dey talk things wey people like to hear, and wey be like sey e make sense. The first topic talk about wetin we fit do when we hear this kind things.		The first article explains what to do when we hear worldly ideas that may sound appealing or convincing.
Pharisee people dey only put eye for the bad thing wey person do.		Contrast the way Jesus and the Pharisees viewed sinners.
Small time after Jesus baptize, ' angels come begin dey help am. ' ( Matt.		Shortly after Jesus was baptized, " angels came and began to minister to him. "
So, many of the Bible Students write letter and send am to their different different church sey dem no want be their member again.		Consequently, many Bible Students prepared letters of withdrawal from their churches.
So, we go answer three question for this topic: ( 1 ) How the city take show sey dey pity person?		Therefore, this article will answer three questions: How do the cities of refuge reveal 's mercy?
So Barzillai come sey make Chimham, wey fit be one of im pikin, follow the king instead of am. - 2 Sam.		So Barzillai recommended that Chimham, presumably one of his sons, take his place. - 2 Sam.
So make you serious, and make you repent. "		So be zealous and repent. "
So wetin dem go come do?		What to do?
They see say Jesus sabi give talk for public, e de cure sick people, and even give food to plenty people wey them de hungry.		We can imagine that they were thinking that Jesus would be an ideal leader.
This ' sin ' fit be sey person play brother or sister wayo for business matter or sey e talk wetin go spoil person name.		Such sins might involve a measure of fraud or might include damaging a person 's reputation through slander.
This one help us know sey we fit enter big wahala if we dey think about how we go take sleep with person wey no be our husband or wife. no want make we dey think about this kind thing.		From this we can perceive that sexual fantasizing is wrong because it can lead to serious sin that is forbidden in the Scriptures and is out of harmony with 's way of thinking.
This one mean sey if we want be like Jesus, we need to know how e dey think, feel, and the things wey e do.		Therefore, to be like Christ, we need to know his pattern of thinking and the full range of his personality.
Timothy really care for people, and the preaching work na number one thing for Timothy.		Timothy truly cared for people and put spiritual interests first.
Today, don give us work. So we need strong mind like Solomon to fit do the work.		Like Solomon, we need help from to be courageous and complete the work.
Today, Satan don deceive some Christian because dem dey think sey dem fit dey sin as dem like and go just dey forgive dem.		Today, Satan has misled some Christians into thinking that they can presume on God 's mercy and commit sins with impunity.
We dey free to do anything, but no be everything fit help other people. "		All things are lawful, but not all things build up. "
We fit tell sister wey no get husband again wetin we like about how e take dey train im pikin even though sey things no easy for am.		We might tell a single mother what impresses us regarding the way she is raising her children despite her challenging situation.
We go fit gain if we dey read this one too?		Can we benefit from reading these too?
Wetin Brother Diehl do about this matter?		How did Brother Diehl handle that situation?
Wetin Jephthah brothers do really pain am.		What his brothers did really hurt Jephthah.
Wetin Satan talk na true?		The result?
Wetin dem go do na to trust and to serve am well.		They needed to trust in and be faithful to him as their God.
Wetin some people dey talk, and why dem dey talk like that?		What idea is appealing to many people, and why?
Wetin we go do to make sure sey na only we dey worship?		In giving exclusive devotion, against what must we be on guard?
Wetin we go learn go help us show sey we love am, and we dey thank am because e want make we live better life. - Isa.		These reminders will help us to show our love and gratitude to our loving heavenly Father, who teaches us to benefit ourselves. - Isa.
When e start to serve na Etta help am.		Etta had assisted her when she came into the truth.
Why this one come be special work? Na because Cornelius no be Jew and dem no circumcise am.		This occasion was noteworthy, since Cornelius was an uncircumcised Gentile.
Willie come tell am sey: " Your mind go come down if I tell you sey even Jesus go hell? "		But Willie added, " Would it do any good if I told you that Jesus went to hell? "
You fit read this kind story for " The Bible Changes Lives, " wey dey our jw.org website.		You can read some of their experiences in the series " The Bible Changes Lives, " found on jw.org.
You go need to try pass before? ' - Ps.		Should you do so even more? - Ps.
You go see how im spirit go ' work inside you so that you go want do and fit do wetin e like. ' ( Phil.		Then see how his spirit " energizes you, giving you both the desire and the power to act. "
You think sey e put the better things wey e go enjoy when Jesus start to rule for mind?		Did he keep clear in mind the happy hope of life under the promised " offspring "?
Zechariah vision make us dey sure sey the two mountain dey protect us.		As we reflect on Zechariah 's vision, we do not doubt that we are safe in the shadow of the two mountains.
wetin dem dey preach and why dem dey preach?		the message they preach and why they preach it?
If Cain take the correction wey give am, e for no pain am reach the suffer wey e suffer because of wetin e do.		The pain of 's reprimand would have been mild by comparison.
True true, e good make we learn our song so that we go fit master dem.		Surely we want to become familiar with the melodies, rhythms, and lyrics of our songs.
So, if sweet mouth no fit make armed robber change im mind, e go make sense if we follow wetin Jesus talk. E sey: ' No fight person wey wicked. '		Thus, if a mild tongue fails to stop an armed robber, wise Christians heed the principle embodied in Jesus ' words: " Do not resist the one who is wicked. "
value young people wey dey serve am.		In all your ways take notice of him, and he will make your paths straight.
How take different from the god dem wey other people dey serve?		How is different from the gods of the nations?
If we repent after we sin, wetin we trust sey e go do for us?		If we repent after making serious mistakes, we can trust that will do what for us?
Who Paul talk sey dey give real freedom?		To whom did Paul direct people so that they could gain true freedom?
Why more people for this world no dey as one?		How is the world becoming more divided?
Wetin many young people dey face for school?		What reality do many adolescents have to face at school?
You Go Settle Quarrel Make Peace Dey?		Will You Resolve Conflicts and Promote Peace?
Wey Dey Judge the Whole World ' Go Always Do the Correct Thing		The Judge of All the Earth " Always Does What Is Right
Jesus start to rule for 1914. And since then, this two mountain dey work together. Dem dey make wetin God get for mind for this earth happen.		Since Jesus ' enthronement in the autumn of 1914, both mountains have been present and have played a special role in the fulfillment of God 's will on earth.
Different Different Topic For 2016 Watchtower		Subject Index for The Watchtower 2016
Louis talk sey: " answer our prayer and e make our mind come down.		Louis relates: " We experienced that answered our prayers and gave us ' the peace of God. '
We learn better thing from this example about people wey support work and people wey no support.		This contrast in attitude toward volunteer service contains an important lesson for us.
Some people think sey e better to hide wetin no good from their husband, make their husband no stop to dey love dem.		In an effort to secure her husband 's love, a wife may reason that it is better to hide unpleasant things from him that he has a right to know.
Acts 20: 1, 2 sey: ' When the katakata don come down, Paul sey make dem call the disciple dem and after e don talk wetin make dem strong, and tell dem bye bye, e come start to dey go Macedonia.		Acts 20: 1, 2 says: " When the uproar. subsided, Paul sent for the disciples, and after he had encouraged them and said farewell, he began his journey to Macedonia.
After all, if you reach the motor park wey we talk about for the beginning of this topic, wetin you go do? You go just jump enter any bus wey you see just because, for your eye, the passengers dey enjoy theirself? You no go do like that.		After all, thinking again of the bus illustration, you surely would not board a bus going just anywhere simply because the passengers on that bus appear to be having a good time.
As dem reach Madagascar for 2006, dem start to enjoy preaching for there.		They arrived in Madagascar in 2006 and enjoyed their ministry from the start.
As e don tey wey dem marry, e already know sey im husband no go want make e spend money like that. Na so e still be with us and.		Because over a period of time, she has become familiar with his way of thinking about their limited budget.
As we don talk before, sometimes because the apostles no put body down, e de bring katakata among them.		As noted, undue pride among his apostles led to some disunity. And pride of race could also have been a problem.
Before, I no de ever give any answer for meeting because I think say nobody go want hear wetin I talk.		I used to sit there and never comment, thinking that nobody would want to hear what I had to say.
Before we think about the life wey God go give us, make we first think about how to support as King. When we remember this one, we go support as the King wey go rule us well.		That correct perspective is important if we are to keep our eyes on this big issue and take our stand for 's righteous rule.
Better friend dey help if wahala dey.		A true friend comes to the aid of others when they need help.
Bible talk sey: ' E start to teach dem many things. '		He started to teach them many things.
Bible talk sey God " dey give power to person wey don tire. " ( Isa.		They were not disappointed, for our God " gives power to the tired one. "
Bible talk sey Paul ' dey make Jesus disciples fear, and e talk sey e go kill dem. '		To say that the man had intense emotions is an understatement.
But, God no collect the freedom to choose from us.		However, they retained the right to exercise the gift of free will.
But, person fit ask sey: ' Even though sey I like the work wey let me do for am, wetin I dey do to support the work really mean anything?		Still, one might ask: ' Does my individual effort really matter?
But when dem feel sey person want chance dem or dem start to carry shoulder up, dem fit do wetin go make peace no dey again.		However, when they face threats to their position and pride, many start acting in a way that is not peaceable.
Dem no want make the church leaders dey tell dem wetin dem go believe. Na for one of this country, for the year 1870, Charles Taze Russell and some other people come dey study Bible well.		It was in one such country, the United States, that Charles Taze Russell and a few associates began their systematic study of the Bible in the late 1800 ' s.
E come deceive the prophet to do wetin sey make e no do.		He deceived the younger man into disobeying 's strict instructions ' not to eat bread or drink water in Israel ' and ' not to return by the way that he came. '
E come talk sey: ' If I want join any church, na Witness I go join. '		He said to himself, ' If ever I wanted to follow a religion, this would be the one. '
E dey surprise many Vietnam people sey I don sabi their language.		Many Vietnamese people are amazed that I have learned their language.
E good sey, dem no let wetin Peter do make dem stop to serve.		It is to be hoped that no one allowed himself to be stumbled by an imperfect man 's mistake.
E no tey after that time, two of dem come dey plan how dem go fit do wetin dem get for mind.		Soon thereafter, they began to take steps to reach their goal.
E still talk sey: " As I no dey stay near my people again, na I dey always go meet make e help me.		She adds: " Being far away from my family, I always turn to for help.
E teach im children well, and e show dem good example. E no easy for am to do this one because the world bad well well that time. - Gen.		He thus taught his children well and set a fine example for them, which was a big challenge during that wicked pre - Flood era. - Gen.
E use e whole life show say e love. And e serve the way want. - 1 Ki.		Yes, David made mistakes, but his life was characterized by love for, devotion to true worship, and genuine repentance over his transgressions. - 1 Ki.
Even though sey e no forget wetin e suffer, that one no make am use bad mind serve.		Although he did not forget the wrongs he suffered, he did not become embittered by them.
Five hundred and fifty brothers and sisters from other country come travel go Turkey. Dem sabi speak the language wey people for Turkey dey speak. Dem join the publishers for the country preach.		About 550 Turkish - speaking brothers and sisters from other countries traveled to Turkey and preached alongside the local publishers during the campaign.
For Bible time, to be firstborn son na big position. And after im papa, na im be the next person wey fit be head of family.		The firstborn son held an honored position and often became the next head of the household.
For great tribulation, people no go fight for theirself. Instead, dem go trust		During the great tribulation, Christians will rely on and not try to defend themselves
For history, this one na one of the time wey plenty people like this don leave their house at once. Muslim people for India comot go settle for Pakistan.		Muslims in India went to Pakistan, while Hindus and Sikhs in Pakistan relocated to India.
For this topic, we go answer the first two question.		In this article, we will answer the first two questions.
How people take different from other people for this praise matter?		In the matter of rendering humans honor, how do 's differ from many people?
How dem take know?		How could they be sure of this?
How holy spirit don take help Governing Body?		How has holy spirit helped the Governing Body?
How the things wey make take show sey e sabi the work?		How does creation declare 's glory?
I dey do wetin I fit do to preach to people and teach dem about God Kingdom?		Am I doing my utmost to preach and teach the good news of the Kingdom?
I go help you. '		I will help you. "
I remember when I pray sey, ", you do well for my body as you no tire for me and as you take give me plenty chance to take see wetin I don dey find - wey be the truth wey dey Bible. "		I remember praying, " Thank you, for not giving up on me and for giving me so many opportunities to find what I was looking for - the true knowledge of the Bible. "
I tell the person wey me and am dey preach sey: ' E be like sey I dey behave like Jonah o!		I told my service partner: ' I think I 'm behaving like Jonah.
If person dey always look things wey dey show naked people, wetin fit happen?		Nurturing " uncontrolled sexual passion " can have what consequences?
If you no like the way person dey behave, you fit no like to invite am come your house to come enjoy with you.		Personality differences may neutralize your good intentions to extend hospitality.
don give us the Life and Preaching Meeting so that our preaching go de better.		lovingly provides the Life and Ministry Meeting so that we can become more effective in the field ministry.
resurrect am, come make am King for im Kingdom wey dey heaven. This na the better thing wey Jesus get from hand. - Matt.		rewarded him by resurrecting him from the dead, thus opening the way for Jesus to become King of the heavenly Kingdom. - Matt.
still tell Adam and Eve another thing, and e tell dem wetin go happen if dem no follow am. E sey: " Make you no chop from the tree wey dey make person sabi wetin good and wetin bad, because the day wey you chop am, you must die. "		gave Adam and Eve another command, which included a clear statement of the penalty if violated: " As for the tree of the knowledge of good and bad, you must not eat from it, for in the day you eat from it you will certainly die. "
Jesus talk about 18 people wey die because house fall on top dem. E no talk sey the house fall on top dem because God want make dem die.		Jesus spoke of a tragedy involving 18 people who were killed when a tower fell on them, and he indicated that those fatalities were not as a result of God 's will.
Like Paul, we fit endure as we de preach.		Yes, like Paul, we can endure in bearing fruit.
Many people no really know who Witness be.		Most people didn 't know 's.
Many things wey we dey talk before fit come mean another thing.		Words and expressions may come to mean something completely different.
My mama come tell me sey: " No try am, you go add join my sickness if you no go. "		You will do nothing of the kind, " Mother replied.
Na e make we want help them see how their life go sweet if they serve!		When we think about the individuals in our territory, we tell ourselves, ' If only we could help them to see what they are missing out on! '
Na wetin make apostle Paul advise Christian dem to obey government.		Accordingly, the apostle Paul advised Christians to view such human governmental authorities as " superior authorities " to whom Christians should be in subjection.
No be so, and Job no think like that.		God was not, and Job did not think so.
No matter how we think sey we strong reach, e still get wetin we no fit do by ourself.		No matter how qualified we may be, we are limited in what we can accomplish in our own strength.
Papa and mama go happy when their pikin follow wetin dey Proverbs 27: 11.		Parents can rejoice when a child takes to heart the thought behind Proverbs 27: 11.
Person like this fit dey your congregation.		Perhaps you know of similar examples in your congregation.
Person wey get real love no dey pretend or carry something for mind.		This means that we cannot show genuine love while pretending to be something that we are not, as if we were wearing a mask.
Peter ask the man whether e go like learn Bible.		Peter asked the man if he would like to understand the Bible.
Remember sey na wetin your children learn from Bible go help dem near and be im friend.		Remember, knowledge of the Scriptures is the foundation on which a strong relationship with is built.
So, if we carry body down, e go help us continue to trust.		Thus, humility protects innocent ones from spiritual disaster.
So, if we dey choose better cloth to wear, this one go make people continue to praise the Person wey wear ' honor and respect like cloth. ' - Ps.		Making wise decisions about what to wear will surely continue to bring glory to the One who clothes himself " with majesty and splendor. " - Ps.
So make anything no make you stop to sing from your heart.		So do not hold back in expressing yourself in song.
So wetin be the fruit wey we must produce?		What, then, is the fruit we must bear?
Some of the things wey dey Bible, make us know sey e no good make person get gun to protect imself from people.		These advise against the use of carnal weapons, such as handguns, rifles, or other firearms, for protection against other humans.
Some people wey dey put eye for this matter wey dem dey call UNHCR ( United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees ), talk sey, today for the whole world, ' 1 person among 113 people dey run comot from where dem dey stay. '		According to the UNHCR ( United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees ), today " 1 in every 113 people " worldwide is " forcibly displaced. "
The Greek word wey dem translate as ' dey try ' mean sey person go stretch hand to collect something; e fit be something wey no near am.		The Greek verb translated " reaching out " means stretching to grasp something, perhaps something beyond your normal reach.
The bad bad things wey we dey see today no be wetin God want for us. When God make this earth, e get am for mind make good things dey happen.		intended for good things to develop on the earth, not the bad things that we see so often today.
The officer for the prison come dey fear sey all the prisoner don run comot.		The jailer, fearing that the prisoners had escaped, was on the verge of committing suicide when Paul called out to him.
The sister talk sey: " Now my daughter dey always call or send me message.		the mother said.
They born me for the city of Sukkur for November 9, 1929.		That is where I entered the world on November 9, 1929.
They don kill people, and they believe say they do - am for God. But the truth be say, God hate the things wey they do! ( Ex.		How ironic that in committing such evil crimes as murder, religious fanatics violate the very laws of the One whom they claim to worship!
This one dey make am easy for you to tell wetin dey your mind.		With these songs, you can express your personal feelings to.
This one go help us put our mind for the promise, and do everything wey we fit do to make sure sey e reach our hand. - 1 Cor.		Indeed, contemplating the blessings that sets before his people helps all of God 's servants to keep their eyes on the prize, whether they have the heavenly or the earthly hope. - 1 Cor.
Today, Adolfo dey teach people how to get cool temper and im good example dey help dem.		Now, however, by word and example, Adolfo teaches others to be mild - tempered.
Vasile na one of our brother, and e de live for that area. E talk say: " People for here de respect Bible.		People here respect the Bible, value justice, have strong family ties, and sincerely try to help one another, " says a local brother named Vasile.
We dey thank for all this plenty brothers and sisters wey dey use all their power for this work.		How thankful we are for the many willing volunteers who work tirelessly on such projects!
We go learn from the example of people wey be better friend for Bible but wey something want scatter their friendship.		We can learn a lot from some individuals mentioned in the Bible who were real friends but whose friendship was later in danger.
We need to show sey we value the freedom wey give us. Apart from that one, we no go use our freedom anyhow.		In addition to expressing gratitude, however, we should be mindful of never misusing our precious freedom.
Wetin be some things wey people want get?		What are some things that people want?
Wetin fit make our family people dey give us wahala?		What may cause a problem with non - Witness relatives?
Wetin happen to dem na lesson for us!		What a warning for us!
Wetin make love dey special?		How precious is it?
Wetin the ' flesh ' wey Paul talk about mean?		Consider first the term " flesh. " To what was Paul referring?
Wetin you fit do if e no easy for you to like the place as you first think?		What can you do if the adjustment is harder than you expected?
Which part of the new character dey help us get one mind?		What aspect of the new personality greatly contributes to our unity?
Why e good make we dey see the good character wey other people get?		What effect will learning to look for the good in others have on us?
Why many people for John Wycliffe time no get Bible?		Why did most people have virtually no access to the Bible in John Wycliffe 's time?
Why we fit talk say we get the thing wey we need to choose wetin go make happy?		Why can we say that we have what we need to make wise decisions?
Wine na wetin dem too like?		Was it their passion, what they ' constantly talked ' about?
You go happy to know sey, dem settle their quarrel. Wetin help dem? Dem follow the advice wey dey Bible.		You will be pleased to know, though, that peace was restored by those brothers and sisters, who all used the Bible as their guide.
You think sey Jesus disciple dem just sitdown for one place make people come meet dem before dem preach?		Were Jesus ' disciples to be passive, waiting for people to come to them?
E fit even make us believe say " bad thing good. "		Such a conscience might even convince us that " bad is good. "
Wetin Bible sey make we do, and which three question we go answer?		What reminder did the apostle Paul give, and what questions does this raise?
But all this wahala no make Abraham stop to get joy.		Despite such pressures, Abraham maintained joy in his heart.
When im wife born two children for am, ' Joseph name im first pikin Manasseh because, e sey, " God don make me forget all my problem and everything for my papa house. "		When his wife bore him two sons, " Joseph named the firstborn Manasseh, for he said, ' God has made me forget all my trouble and all the house of my father. '
But e sweet us sey Bible get better news for us.		Happily, 's Word counters such bad news with good news.
Think am!		Think about it!
Nothing better pass to dey for side and for to dey see you as im friend.		You could have no greater privilege in life than being on God 's side and having him approve of you.
As we don see sey no be better thing come out from wetin Adam do, make we use our freedom well.		This gross misuse of free will resulted in millenniums of suffering and pain for Adam 's descendants.
Wetin de give us power to finish the preaching work?		What helps us to finish God 's work?
But wetin be the fruit wey disciples of Christ need to produce?		What, then, is the fruitage that Christ 's followers need to bear?
Today, we get brothers and sisters wey never marry, and dem dey use their time put body for work. You no think sey e good make we dey tell dem better word wey go help dem? - 1 Cor.		Do not unmarried Christians who use their singleness to give greater attention to " the things of the Lord " also deserve commendation and encouragement? - 1 Cor.
Timothy no lazy at all.		Timothy was not lazy.
But Paul talk sey, " when person come meet, the cloth go comot. " ( 2 Cor.		But, " Paul explained, " when one turns to, the veil is taken away. "
Wetin happen to the caretaker wey Jesus talk about?		In what situation did the steward of Jesus ' illustration find himself?
Dey Help Us No Matter Our Problem		Provides Comfort in All Our Trials
When elders dey use all their mind follow wetin God and Jesus talk, both dem and the people wey dem dey take care of go get better gain. - Isa.		To be sure, overseers who joyfully submit to God and to Christ, the head of the congregation, benefit both themselves and those under their care. - Isa.
Phil. 4: 5 ) E go think, ' My husband dey talk sey make I no preach again or e just want make I stay house only today? '		Is her husband completely opposed to her going out in service, or is he asking her to do something else just that one day?
Many many people wey want serve God well still dey for fake religion hand.		Multitudes of sincere individuals are still being held captive by false religion.
Because e love, e comot from the group and stop to live lesbian life.		Her heart moved her to resign from her position and to end her lesbian relationship.
The Peace Wey God Dey Give Pass Wetin Person Fit Understand		The Peace of God.
After, I ask the telephone company if they go agree make I start work after five weeks.		Later, I asked the telephone company if I could start working there five weeks later than planned.
And e grow for Alaotra Mangoro.		He grew up in Alaotra Mangoro, a fertile region in eastern Madagascar.
Apart from that one, for 1916 na 809,393 people come our meeting dem for United States, and for 1918 the number come go up reach 949,444.		Reports further indicate that in 1916 a total of 809,393 attended public meetings in the United States, and in 1918 the number rose to 949,444.
As e try reach, many times e still do am again.		Time and again, he suffered relapses.
As im talk want finish, e come ask sey, ' Una believe sey the King wey get level don start to rule? '		The audience responded with a mighty shout: " Yes! "
As take talk am David Sinclair		As told by David Sinclair
But help im people, and dem finish the work for 515 B.C.E. ( Ezra 6: 22; Zech.		Soon removes the mountainlike obstacle of the official ban, and the temple is completed in 515 B.C.E.
But e dey hard us sometimes because we get sin for body.		Sometimes we may find that it is not easy to decide whether we will help others or concentrate on ourselves.
But now I dey happy sey I get the chance to serve for Bethel.		Looking back, now I am grateful to have been given the privilege of serving at Bethel.
But now dem don get the chance to follow people. E good make we dey treat dem well so that dem no go feel like stranger as dem dey with us.		But now that they have the opportunity to associate with us, should we not help them so that they no longer feel like strangers in our midst?
But this one go hard dem to do if serious problem dey the marriage.		That may be the last thing one would be inclined to do if a serious disagreement were to develop.
Dem first send am go prison two times, and e stay there for three three years. Later, dem come still put am for prison for ten years.		Twice he served three - year sentences for upholding neutrality; then he spent a further ten years in prison plus five years in exile.
Dem make sure sey dem sack anybody wey collect our book and sey we comot from where we dey stay.		They had people dismissed from their jobs if they accepted our books, and they had us evicted from our lodgings.
Dey encourage dem as dem dey try learn your language.		Commend them for their efforts to learn your language.
E dey really sweet us when we see how e take dey rule. Im na ' God wey get pity and wey dey feel for person.		Indeed, our hearts are touched by how he chooses to exercise his sovereignty.
E get one family wey we study with. Later, about 30 people for the family come start to serve.		Eventually, some 30 members of a family with whom we studied came into the truth!
E mean sey no matter how the problem wey we jam for this life be, go fit help us manage am.		That whatever the nature of the trials we may face in life, can enable us to cope with them.
E no dey play wayo, and e dey try do wetin God law talk. E still dey wait make God Kingdom come.		Unlike most of his Sanhedrin colleagues, he lived an honest, moral life and did his best to obey God 's commands.
E no good make we force our children or any other person to baptize.		Certainly, no one should feel pressured by a parent, a Bible teacher, or anyone else in the congregation to get baptized.
E no vex when Nathan wey be prophet correct am for wetin e do. ( 2 Sam.		One way he did that was by accepting correction from 's representative, the prophet Nathan.
E sey: " E just be like sey I no know anything.		He says: " It was as if I knew nothing.
E still say: " I see say, many times, people wey they want use trouble end problem de die.		I saw that those who resort to violence often end up dead.
Elijah come go help am.		Elijah came to her aid.
For to teach us wetin dey inside the scrolls, na another way wey e take dey show im favor.		The revealing of the contents of these scrolls will be another demonstration of 's undeserved kindness.
For example, think about wetin e do for Israel people for olden days.		He also shows keen interest in each individual.
For many area, people no need to give government worker anything for the work wey dem suppose do.		In many places, a member of the community does not have to give anything to public employees in order to obtain what he is entitled to.
For the farm, we dey arrange the fruit and vegetable dem put for container.		The farm produce was processed at an on - site cannery.
For this topic, we go learn about one bad thinking wey fit make us miss the better advice wey dey some of the book wey dey give us.		This article alerts us to a trap that could cause us to miss out on beneficial spiritual provisions.
For work?		At work?
How Paul take settle am, and wetin this one teach us about other people freedom?		How did Paul resolve matters, and what does this teach us about the rights of others?
How take dey make our hand strong today?		How does strengthen our hands today?
How the brothers feel when the letter wey governing body write reach their hand?		What effect did the letter sent by the governing body have on the early Christian congregation?
How we fit follow this advice when we want choose who we go marry?		How can this be applied to choosing a marriage mate?
How we go take pull our old character trowey?		How can we strip off and keep off the old personality?
How we take know?		Not at all. Why not?
How wicked people take dey affect us now?		In what ways do wicked people affect us now?
I dey always thank sey e let me dey there. '		I always want to say, ' Thank you, for permitting me to be there. ' "
If the person really like wetin e dey learn and ready to do everything wey Christian suppose do, e go want baptize. - 2 Cor.		It is the student 's heartfelt appreciation for the truth and his desire to shoulder the yoke of Christian discipleship that will move him to get baptized. - 2 Cor.
dey use elder for congregation mold us one one.		uses the Christian congregation and its overseers to mold us on a personal level.
Jesus make am clear sey, no go forgive us if we no forgive our brothers wey don really change.		Jesus makes it clear that will not forgive us if we do not forgive our brothers when there is a sound basis for doing so.
Make we live the kind life wey go make people respect law.		They fight to protect their integrity in an atmosphere that promotes disrespect for 's standards.
Make we no think sey if we no dey organization, the work no go move. The truth be sey the work go always dey move.		No human is indispensable in 's organization, and the work of spreading Kingdom truths continues.
Many times, Jesus talk to people about God Kingdom.		Jesus often spoke to individuals about the Kingdom.
Martha no talk sey: ' My brother fit come life again. '		Note that Martha did not say: ' I hope that my brother will rise. '
Me and my wife Maria for 2011		With my wife in 2011
Na because dem no know whether the money wey dem get go fit reach dem to take manage life.		They also worry about the health issues that may confront them as they grow older.
Na true sey, no be only to go meeting every week fit help pikin understand Bible well, no matter the language wey the congregation dey use.		Of course - regardless of language - to gain a firm grasp of the truth, a child needs much more than just a few hours of spiritual education each week at meetings.
No tire!		Do not give up!
One brother for Australia wey dey 15 years write sey: " My papa dey always help me to sabi why I believe wetin I believe.		A 15 - year - old brother in Australia wrote: " Dad often talks with me about my faith and helps me to reason.
Paul and Silas face some problem, but that one no make dem stop to get joy. For example, dem beat dem well well and put dem for prison.		For example, after they had endured a dreadful beating and were thrown into prison, in " the middle of the night, [ they ] were praying and praising God with song. "
People wey dey serve God know sey if dem want make God bless dem, dem no go continue to support fake religion.		They could not expect to receive God 's blessing if they continued to support false religious organizations.
People wey don marry and single brothers or sisters fit come the school.		Those being instructed could be couples or single brothers or sisters.
Person fit enjoy this kind freedom even if e dey prison or dem dey use am as slave.		A person can enjoy the benefits of such freedom even when imprisoned or enslaved.
Person wey dey mold, dey sofri mold wetin e dey mold.		Pottery is a craft in which the artisan works very closely with his material.
Satan de control plenty bad angels.		A significant number of angels joined Satan 's rebellion.
Send me! " '		Send me! ' "
Some even dey do am as part of wetin dem use dey serve their juju. When Abram ( Abraham ) and im wife, Sarai ( Sarah ) go Canaan, the things wey Canaan people dey do show sey dem no dey respect marriage.		When Abram ( Abraham ) and his wife, Sarai ( Sarah ), obeyed God and moved to Canaan, that land was filled with practices that made a mockery of marriage.
Some of them even suffer Paul.		On the contrary, most rebuffed Paul, and some even persecuted him.
THE first verse for Bible talk sey: ' From beginning, God make heaven and earth. ' Wetin dey that verse simple but e carry weight.		THE very first words of the Bible make this simple but profound statement: " In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth. "
That time, many Witness people for Mexico dey do everything wey dem fit do to go convention.		In those years, most had to make great personal sacrifices to attend the few conventions held in Mexico.
The book still talk sey, when we dey endure, we no go dey think of wetin we don suffer but we go continue to put eye for where our mind dey.		And it allows us to turn those trials into victories and to focus on our goal, not on our pain.
The name of that first congregation come be Upper Bronx Congregation, and na that one I dey.		That original one became known as the Upper Bronx Congregation, which I attended.
The people wey im first hire start to complain.		When those first hired realized this, they complained.
The sin wey we get for body no fit stop us make we no serve the way e want. When we get this one for mind, e de make our faith strong.		It is faith - strengthening to know that our imperfection does not stop us from serving acceptably.
The truth be sey, their preaching come better pass before.		In fact, reports show increases in all areas of field activity.
The truth be sey all of us na sinner.		All of us, of course, must face the reality that we are sinners.
Their publishers don plenty pass as e be before, and na about ten times e use plenty pass as e be when I first go there.		The number of publishers is now about ten times what it was when I began serving here.
They ask about " head tax " wey people under Roman government de pay. The money na one denarius.		The tax in question was the " head tax, " a tax of one denarius levied on Roman subjects.
Think about wetin happen for 1973.		Consider what occurred in 1973.
This one help Job change how e dey think.		This helped Job regain the proper perspective.
This one show sey person wey dey mold things fit use ordinary sand sand take make something wey fine and wey cost well well.		Clearly, a potter can turn something as abundant and inexpensive as clay into a beautiful and costly masterpiece.
This story fit help you know wetin you go do: Brothers and sisters for congregation go one get together. For there, one sister come greet two brothers, but one of the brother no like the way the sister greet am.		Consider what happened when the following situation developed: At a social gathering attended by some, two brothers were greeted by a certain sister in a way that one of them considered inappropriate.
This thing first surprise me well well.		At first, I thought I was dreaming.
This two topic wey we go study go give the answer. And they go help us continue to get strong heart to fight Satan.		These two articles will answer those questions and will help us strengthen our resolve to stand firm against the Devil.
We dey show sey we want do wetin e tell us.		We show that we want to obey him.
We no want die and we want dey free from sin and death. Na only the ransom fit help us get all this one.		It satisfies our desire to keep living, and it fills our need to be freed from sin and death.
We settle for there quick - quick, and begin serve as before.		We quickly settled into a good spiritual routine.
Wetin be the problem wey God people face?		What obstacles did the returning Jews face?
Wetin dem dey do na one important way to show sey dem dey preach well well about the good news of God favor.		This is an important part of the work of bearing thorough witness to the good news of the undeserved kindness of God.
Wetin we fit learn from the story about Paul and the officer for prison?		What lessons can we learn from the account about Paul and the jailer?
Wetin we go put for mind when we dey preach to refugee people?		What should we keep in mind when preaching to refugees?
Wetin you fit gain from Memorial?		benefit us personally?
When dem first start to talk, dem no first dey flow with each other. But as dem come dey talk, things come dey flow, and dem come dey understand theirself.		At first, the conversation was somewhat tense, but things improved as they discussed their problem in a calm way.
When e want talk to Ruth wey be Moab person, e call am ' my pikin. '		That was how the wealthy Israelite Boaz addressed the Moabitess Ruth.
Which bad things David do, and wetin God come do?		How did David sin seriously, and what did God do about it?
Which three question we go talk about, and why?		What three questions will we consider, and why?
Something wey we no plan for fit happen to us anytime ' and no go stop am.		Second, does not shield us from " time and unexpected events. "
Wetin Jephthah and Hannah example teach us?		What lessons can we learn from Jephthah and Hannah?
To do like Jesus, people wey dey follow am suppose love theirself as e take love dem.		Imitating Jesus ' example requires that his followers love one another just as he loved them.
For our time, people don show the kind love wey dem get, when different different country fight war.		This proved especially important in recent history when the nations engaged in deadly wars on a shocking scale.
Because dem dey make submarine ( plane wey dey carry bomb for under water ) for where I dey work, I come tell myself sey time don reach for me to leave that work come enter full - time preaching work.		Since the dockyard was building submarines, I decided that it was time for me to leave my job and take up the full - time ministry.
God go use the love and sense wey e get take comot sin from human being body. Everybody go come be like Adam when God first make am.		With great love and wisdom, will bring the human family to perfection, according to his original purpose.
For the area wey Jesus and the apostles preach, na normal thing for the people to allow strangers enter their house.		In the area where Jesus and the apostles often preached, it was not unusual for people to invite strangers into their homes.
If we want be tight friend, wetin we need to do?		To make real spiritual progress, what do we need to do?
Which question we go answer?		What important questions will we now consider?
Dan. 2: 48 ) Ezekiel and other Jew people go don happy, as dem see how use Daniel take help dem.		Imagine how comforting it must have been for the Jewish captives, including Ezekiel, to see 's hand in matters in this way!
After where the ship dey, e come see twelve Bible Students wey dey wait for am near the water.		Beyond the shipyard, a dozen Bible Students stood on the quay, awaiting his arrival.
Why e no go surprise us sey things fit worry us for mind?		Why should we not be surprised when we experience some anxiety?
Even before e come this earth, e choose sey e no go leave im Father and e no follow Satan do wetin bad.		Even before coming to earth, Jesus chose to remain loyal to his Father and not join Satan in his rebellion.
E don pass 30 years wey one brother de pioneer, e name na Robert. E talk say: " As we de preach with angels, e de make me happy because them know the things wey people de face. "		Notes Robert, a pioneer for over 30 years, " To work along with angels who know what is going on in the householders ' lives is exciting. "
For King Jehoash time, the priest dem use the money wey people contribute take repair the temple. ( 2 Ki.		During the time of King Jehoash, the priests used money that was collected to repair the house of.
You Still Remember?		Do You Remember?
Cain no hear word.		Cain did not listen.
Because dem want choose wetin good and wetin bad by theirself, dem come trowey the freedom wey give dem.		In striving for self - determination, they lost the true freedom they had been given.
After I don stay the island for ten months, the people wey arrest me for there come tell me sey time don reach make I wear army uniform.		After I had been through ten months of " rehabilitation, " my captors decided that it was time I put on a military uniform.
After the elders handle im matter, e come get peace of mind. E sey: " I dey fit breath reach ground now.		After the elders had corrected him and helped him to regain a clear conscience, he said: " I felt that I could breathe again.
Apart from that one, when we use our mind go do the work for our country or another country, we dey prepare ourself for the work wey go give us for paradise.		In addition, offering ourselves willingly - in the area where we live or in a foreign country - prepares us for the theocratic activities that are awaiting us in the new world.
Because na make us, e know wetin go make us happy. E don even give us pass wetin we need.		As our loving Designer and Creator, knows what we need in order to be truly happy, and he fills that need abundantly.
Because things hard that time, everybody for our area come dey live simple life.		Life there was simple because it was a time of economic depression.
Before e know, belle come dey turn am.		Suddenly, he began having abdominal cramps.
Bible still answer this question dem: How we go take use our freedom well?		The Bible also answers such questions as: How should our freedom to make decisions be exercised?
Bible tell us sey the bad things wey people dey do for Sodom and Gomorrah ' disturb ' Lot well well for mind.		That righteous man was " greatly distressed " by the brazen conduct of the inhabitants of Sodom and Gomorrah.
But as people for the congregation come dey plenty, dem come get one problem.		As the early Christian congregation grew, however, a situation that apparently involved discrimination arose.
But as we talk before, e no bad for person to like imself, and money no be bad thing. Na so enjoyment still be. But some people believe sey e no good for person to enjoy imself at all.		Just as there is nothing wrong with a healthy, reasonable view of self and money, there is nothing wrong with a balanced view of pleasures.
But before e talk this one, e sey: " Make una stop to dey gather things for unaself for this earth, where insect and rust fit spoil am and where thief fit enter come thief am.		He prefaced that by saying: " Stop storing up for yourselves treasures on the earth, where moth and rust consume and where thieves break in and steal.
But e good make we no forget sey ' na God spirit dem take write everything wey dey inside Bible. '		True, some portions of the Bible were initially directed to one individual or group.
But na book wey holy spirit help people write and dem arrange am well.		Rather, it is a well - organized book - a divinely inspired masterpiece.
But no be so people dey do.		That, however, is not the Christian way.
Daniel know sey this one na true because Miriam, wey don dey pioneer, dey happy for the work.		Miriam had already begun pioneering and was experiencing joyful blessings.
Dem come paste am for every sign board and door. We ask wetin the letter dem mean, but e be like sey nobody know, or even if dem know, dem no gree tell us. '		We asked what the letters meant, but no one seemed to know, or if they did, they would not tell us. " - Edith Brenisen.
Dem don see am sey even though dem no reach, dem fit call their Papa and let am mold dem.		They consider it an honor to address as Father and to submit to him as their Potter.
Dem eat and dem drink.		They consumed food and drink.
Dem get hope sey dem go enter the land wey God promise dem, land wey milk and honey dey flow. And na for there dem go really rest. - Ex.		They had the prospect of entering the promised land " flowing with milk and honey, " where they could enjoy true rest. - Ex.
Dem no go follow other people wey dey near dem dey serve different different god.		They were not to follow the peoples around them, who worshipped various gods and goddesses.
E fit surprise dem if dem know, and their mind fit even start to worry dem. E fit be sey government for our area dey let people get gun.		If it became known that a member of the congregation kept a gun for protection against humans, some fellow believers might be shocked, even stumbled.
E get one man wey im name na Stephen, e come from Australia. E don marry and e get pikin. E talk sey: " Before, to curse no dey hard me.		Relates Stephen, a father from Australia: " I used to swear a lot and would regularly fly into a rage over trivial things.
E get one single sister for United State. Im name na Irene.		Consider the example of Irene, a single sister in the United States.
E good make we get this one for mind.		That is a lesson we all must learn.
E help Kiana remember say the things wey this world de give no go last.		The hope of Paradise helps me put secular goals in perspective, " she adds.
E no even reach two month, people don collect nearly 500,000 magazine from the first ones wey dem print, and 50,000 people sey dem want dey get am every month.		Within two months of its first issue, nearly half a million sample copies of The Golden Age had been placed, and the magazine had 50,000 subscribers.
E tell people better word wey help dem continue to serve.		The parable of the talents, given in Jesus ' prophecy about the conclusion of the system of things, encourages faithfulness.
Elders no be like and Jesus wey dey fit see wetin dey person mind.		Unlike and Jesus, elders cannot read hearts.
Even now, if they send me to work there again, I go need to learn plenty things again.		Nonetheless, I feel that if I were assigned to work there again, I would still be a novice.
For 1979, we born Daniel, after we don born four children.		In 1979, Lene and I welcomed the arrival of our fifth child, Daniel.
For September 1939, when I dey 16 years, Britain don already talk sey dem go fight war with Germany.		Britain had declared war on Germany in September 1939 when I was 16.
For example, people fit no judge your matter well, dem fit no like you or dey laugh you because you dey serve.		Perhaps it is some type of injustice, prejudice, or ridicule.
For paradise, na go dey rule everybody. That time, all of us go learn how e dey do things.		In the new world, all will come under 's sovereignty and learn his righteous ways.
For place like Congo, Madagascar, and Rwanda, Bible cost well well. Sometimes, e cost reach their salary for one week or one month.		For years, in such lands as Congo, Madagascar, and Rwanda, brothers often had to choose between having food for their families and having copies of the Bible, which sometimes cost the equivalent of a weekly or a monthly wage.
For that one to happen, make we no dey think of how wetin we dey study go help only other people but how e go still help us. ( Phil.		To reach that goal, we should find a balance between keeping in mind the needs of others when studying and reflecting on our own spiritual needs.
Give one example wey show sey everything wey promise dey always happen when e suppose happen.		Give an example to show that 's prophecies are always fulfilled right on time.
How take bless Joseph because e do wetin E like?		How did Joseph 's relationship with prove to be a blessing to him?
How mature sisters for congregation fit show sey dem get strong mind?		What courage may be needed on the part of older sisters?
How the thing wey Jephthah talk for Judges 11: 35 take show sey e get faith?		What do Jephthah 's words recorded at Judges 11: 35 reveal about his faith?
How you think sey e do Israel people for body when dem be slave for Babylon? Babylon people come dey use dem do yeye.		Imagine how the exiled Israelites must have felt in Babylon.
I Happy to Work With People Wey Love ( D.		I Have Been Blessed to Work With Spiritual Men ( D.
I come like the book dem well well, especially the pictures. My papa no want make my mama dey tell me wetin e dey learn from the book dem.		My mother had obtained Bible publications, and I became engrossed in their contents, particularly the illustrations.
I don see wetin go make me happy for life and na wetin I don dey find be this. "		I knew I had found what I was looking for, a satisfying purpose in life. "
I tell dem sey I no fit do am because I dey do full - time preaching work. The court no gree sey na that work I dey do; na so dem take put me for prison for six month.		I sought an exemption on the basis of being a full - time minister, but the court would not acknowledge that I was a minister and sentenced me to six months in prison.
If na you, you go fit do like Jephthah?		Would you have been as faithful as Jephthah was?
Im papa and mama talk sey: " We tell ourself sey we go follow wetin dey Bible, because we know sey if we do wetin God like things go better.		We resolved to apply the Bible, " said the parents, " recognizing that doing things God 's way would result in the best outcome.
get how e take arrange everything wey e make and how e take arrange dem no dey change.		We are dependent on the consistent and reliable laws of nature established by.
go help you if you continue to do well.		will certainly bless you if you continue to make spiritual progress.
Jesus tell im disciple sey: ' Dem go carry una go front of many governor and king because of me, make una fit preach to dem and people wey no be Jews. ' ( Matt.		Jesus told his disciples: " You will be brought before governors and kings for my sake, for a witness to them and the nations. "
Make we take Joshua, wey we don talk about before, as example.		That was the case with Joshua, quoted at the outset.
Make you no forget sey, as you dey preach to people wey dey come take care of you and other people, you still dey praise.		Always remember that as you share the good news with caregivers and others, your sacred service glorifies our wonderful God.
Many people for this world like to copy wetin other people dey do.		Most imperfect humans are strongly influenced by the spirit of Satan 's world.
Many people hear the good news and dem come dey form new congregation for everywhere for Ireland. - Better story about us from Britain.		Public talks helped spread the good news, and congregations sprang up in numerous cities throughout Ireland. - From our archives in Britain.
Miriam talk sey: ' Dem sey make we do special pioneer work.		Miriam says: " We were invited to serve as special pioneers.
My papa, my mama and 11 of us wey be children come run make dem no kill us. The property wey we carry no reach anything.		My parents and 11 of us siblings fled for our lives with only the clothes on our backs.
My schoolmate dem see wetin dey happen and I come see am as chance to take preach to dem.		All of this caused quite a stir among my schoolmates, but it created opportunities for me to give a witness.
Na pigeon or dove poor people fit use do sacrifice. But because e too cost, dem no come fit buy am again. ( Lev.		Pigeons or doves were an acceptable sacrifice of the poor; yet, the price even of these birds had become prohibitive.
Na so e still be when we dey give the better things wey we get. E know sey e good for us to dey give.		Likewise, realizes that giving from our valuable things is good for us.
Na that kind friend you be?		Are you this type of friend?
One book talk sey, if person no think matter well, e go quick believe lie.		Because propaganda " is likely to be most effective, " says one source, " if people. are discouraged from thinking critically. "
One of the main reason why tell Israel people to build those city, na because e no want make person blood dey their head. ( Deut.		A key purpose of the cities of refuge was to protect the Israelites from bloodguilt.
One young sister feel like that, e name na Ida and e dey 19 years.		Nineteen - year - old Ida struggles with feelings of unworthiness.
Other people don follow Moses and other servant of God example because dem no want pursue money or begin live big life for this world.		Others are like Moses and the patriarchs in that they have given up a life of worldly ease or fame.
Papa and mama suppose get am for mind to help their children become Jesus disciple ( Check paragraph 16, 17 )		Parents should have the goal of helping their child become a disciple ( See paragraphs 16, 17 )
People for Israel come hear sey dem need people wey go fight.		Word spread.
Pioneers wey go another country go do work, fit fill form to go the school. Dem fit go for their own country, or for another country wey dey do the school for their language, so far dem qualify.		Full - time ministers serving abroad who meet the requirements may apply to attend this school in their country of origin or in another country where the school is held in their mother tongue.
Praise With the Way You Dey Dress, Sept.		Prove Yourself Loyal to, Feb.
Proverbs 28: 5 answer this question. Part of that verse talk sey: " People wey dey serve go fit understand everything. " This one mean sey dem fit understand everything wey dem need to do to make God happy.		The answer is found in our theme text, which says in part: " Those who seek can understand everything " - that is, everything necessary to please him.
Since that time, ' e come from our mind to follow ' wetin dey Bible.		Since then, it has been our desire to be " obedient from the heart " to God 's teachings and standards.
Some people dey first choose wetin dem want do, later dem go beg to bless wetin dem choose.		Others might make a decision first and then pray for to bless their decision.
Sometimes na only one side news dey support for some matter.		Sometimes a news story is told in a way that strongly supports one side of an issue.
That day wey I interpret for Brother Stewart, e tell the congregation sey dem want one or two brothers wey be pioneer for Bethel.		On the day that I interpreted for Brother Stewart, he mentioned to the local congregation that the branch office wanted to invite one or two pioneer brothers to come to Bethel.
That na why I go show sey I dey use better mind wait for am. ' - Lam.		That is why I will show a waiting attitude for him. " - Lam.
The first time wey l hear about Trinity na when I dey 12 years.		When I was 12, I first heard about the Trinity.
The good thing be sey, dem no forget wetin dem learn. Dem like wetin God promise and wetin God sey make dem do and dem think about am.		More important, they did not forget what they had learned but cherished God 's promises and requirements and meditated on them.
The night wey Jesus start the Memorial, one bad character wey e see for im apostle body be sey dem dey carry shoulder up.		On the night when Jesus instituted the Memorial, pride was one negative trait that he saw in his apostles.
The second thing be sey, for eye, na better thing you dey do, as you don start to do wetin go make your plan work.		The second reason is that once you start working toward spiritual goals, you begin building a record of good works in 's eyes.
The truth be sey, we no fit praise any human being for ' the deep things wey dey God mind ' wey we don understand and fit explain!		Surely, no human deserves credit for discovering and explaining these " deep things of God "!
This one go help us see sey correction dey important. One of dem na Shebna wey live for King Hezekiah time. The other person na one brother wey im name na Graham.		To underscore the value of discipline, let us consider two individuals whom disciplined: Shebna, who lived in the time of King Hezekiah, and Graham, a brother in our day.
This one go help you respect dem and you no go do or talk wetin go vex dem.		Learn and respect refugees ' religious and cultural sensitivities.
This one mean sey we go dey read Bible every day, prepare for meeting and dey go meeting every week, dey do personal Bible study and family worship, and dey pray to every time.		That includes our reading God 's Word daily, preparing for and attending the meetings weekly, feeding our mind and heart through personal study and family worship, and always relying on in prayer.
We come get peace, dey do things together and love come dey. "		We experienced peace, unity, and love. "
We de feel so because we love the preaching work.		Such feelings indicate, not that we lack faith, but that our heart is in the preaching work.
We dey get chance to show our brothers and sisters sey we love dem.		We have opportunities to show our brothers that we love them.
We need to dey do wetin elders dey tell us from Bible.		We need to follow the Bible - based direction we receive from the elders.
We no go still talk or do anything wey go be like sey we ready to die for our country or sey our country better pass another country.		We also do not get involved in any patriotic or nationalistic activity.
Wetin Brother Russell see go don make am remember how im papa and mama take describe the place wey dem come from. Brother Russell and im friends no only see sey the town and village for there fine.		As Brother Russell and his traveling companions passed through tidy towns and beautiful countryside, they realized that here was a field " ready and waiting to be harvested. "
Wetin go do about bad government, bad business, bad religion, and wicked people?		What will do about wicked people and corrupt organizations?
Wetin Jephthah promise dey different from wetin Hannah promise am.		Jephthah 's vow was different from Hannah 's.
Wetin Noah fit do: Noah no let the things wey e no fit do make am tire for life.		What Noah could do: Instead of giving up because of what he could not do, Noah focused on what he could do.
Wetin fit make us miss some of the things wey dey give us?		What could cause us to miss out on the benefits of some spiritual provisions?
Wetin go help us no be like people wey only like money?		How can we avoid becoming lovers of money?
Wetin help Daniel continue to serve well when e dey Babylon?		What helped Daniel to maintain his spiritual health while living in a foreign land?
Wetin one woman do because e want enter God Kingdom? Wetin make am do am?		What changes did Rose make to become a subject of God 's Kingdom, and why did she do so?
Wetin this topic don teach you wey you go dey do?		How has this article encouraged you?
Wetin we go do so that family problem no go make us miss wetin God promise us?		How can we prevent family difficulties from depriving us of the prize?
Wetin we suppose do to make sure sey we continue to put the work as number one thing for life?		How can we make sure that we continue to do so?
When we come buy shoe for am, e start to follow us preach.		We bought her a pair, and she came preaching with us.
When you face problem wey be like sey e big pass you, do like Asa.		What would your heart move you to do?
Which people go?		Who shared in it?
Which time e important pass to wear better cloth?		When especially do we need to wear appropriate clothing?
Which truth about us go always dey our mind?		We ought to face what fact about sin?
Why e no good make we force person baptize?		Why do we not pressure anyone to get baptized?
Yes, e dey!		Yes, you do!
Yes, e dey see the good things wey we dey do! E know sey we love am and ready to do wetin go make am happy.		also sees how much we love him and how much we long to serve him fully.
You for use the chance take enjoy yourself with people, and get the kind friendship wey go last.		If so, you may have missed out on opportunities for delightful company and for forming lasting friendships.
Young people wey dey organization dey face problem today. But even with that one, dem still dey use their life serve. We suppose dey praise dem.		Young people in the congregation deserve warm commendation for the way they meet these challenges and for being determined to focus their lives on serving.
Young people wey dey do like Kim - we give una hand! Una dey make we and happy!		We are proud of young Christians who are determined to resist pressure to share in sexual immorality, and is proud of them too!
angels help dem?		assisted by angels?
Even some people wey serve God well come later dey carry shoulder.		Sadly, though, even some loyal servants of have become infected with pride.
[CONTENT_REMOVED]		See paragraphs 14 - 18 )
So, make we do like David wey sey: ' I go sing to praise name forever.		The failure to keep one 's word to and to pay a vow may have serious consequences.
When problem come, God holy spirit go fit help us remember wetin Bible talk and the advice wey dey inside.		When trials arise, the spirit can help us to remember Bible accounts and principles and then discern the wise steps to take.
But one thing be sey, na this truth Satan first dey attack. For example, when soldier go fight war, their enemy fit use lie deceive dem.		But since truth is often the first casualty of war, you - like any other soldier in the heat of battle - need a source of trustworthy, reliable information to prevent the enemy from playing tricks with your mind.
We no go ever fit be God friend if we no gree forgive people wey do us bad. - Read Luke 11: 4; Ephesians 4: 32.		We cannot be friends of God unless we are willing to forgive the shortcomings of others. - Read Luke 11: 4; Ephesians 4: 32.
E don pass 20 years now wey Isaac, Negede, and Paulos dey prison for Eritrea. Dem follow for the many of people wey dey prison for that country.		Among these hundreds of prisoners are Isaac, Negede, and Paulos, who have been in an Eritrean prison camp for over 20 years!
And dey always think of wetin fit happen if you follow other people do bad thing. ( Gal.		And remind yourself of the painful consequences of joining others in bad behavior.
Give one example of how research fit help us sabi some things wey no easy to quick know.		Give an example of how background information may reveal lessons that are not immediately obvious.
How wife suppose see im husband?		How should a wife view headship?
Tell All the Things Wey Dey Worry You		Throw All Your Anxiety on
But that one don make us stop to dey talk?		Yet, that does not stop us from speaking.
If we love God, how we go treat our brothers and sisters?		How does " the love of God " move Christians to act toward brothers in need?
And dem dey allow me talk to dem.		This helped me to be obedient.
And how you fit sabi preach well?		And how can you be more effective at giving a witness?
And this kind love dey make people know sey we really dey follow Jesus.		Yes, if we imitate Jesus, we will always act with love.
Anytime wey dem get serious problem for their marriage, the elders wey dey that time dey help dem.		When serious problems arose in marriage, help was often provided by the elders.
Apostle John want make Gaius treat the visitors well again. Na im make e tell am sey, ' when the visitors dey go, treat dem as God want. '		John encouraged Gaius to show hospitality again, for the apostle asked him to " send [ the travelers ] on their way in a manner worthy of God. "
As we dey try to preach the good news for front of government, we fit win.		Our efforts to defend the good news may result in legal victories.
Before you know, we go dey talk about.		Before long, we would be talking about the Creator.
Bible tell us wetin Abraham believe - e believe sey God go bring Isaac come life again.		Paul was inspired to explain that Abraham believed that God was able to raise Isaac from the dead.
But I still dey fear sey breeze go blow one day and my secret go leak.		Still, I was always looking over my shoulder, waiting for the consequences of my actions.
But e go really make the pikin happy for life?		More important, is it in harmony with the Scriptures?
But instead of the sister to tell am im address, e come ask my wife to tell am where our house dey.		Instead of giving my wife her address, Apun took note of our address.
But no worry! Get am for mind sey God ready to help you. - Read Isaiah 41: 10, 13.		But you can be assured that God is ready to give you a helping hand. - Read Isaiah 41: 10, 13.
Check under ABOUT US > OFFICES & TOURS.		Look under ABOUT US > OFFICES & TOURS.
Dem come tell am make e join people wey go do sport for Olympic. But e no go. Instead, e come start to dey pioneer.		She was asked to take part in the Winter Olympic Games but chose instead to take up the full - time ministry.
E do wetin sweet people mind.		He saw the need for refreshment.
E fit be sey this kind thing never happen to you before.		When your friend opens the door and welcomes you into his home, you heave a sigh of relief.
E fit be sey you read am.		Probably so.
E make me see sey the matter no dey our hand again, and we no suppose put hand inside. "		Some years later, the daughter was reinstated.
E no dey use wetin other people do dey check wetin we dey do and e no dey fail to show us love, even when we make mistake.		He does not compare us with others or withhold his love when we make mistakes.
E no get anywhere for there wey show sey tell Job why e dey suffer.		Nowhere do we read of God 's telling Job specifically the reason behind his suffering.
E sey: ' God dey see how person take dey live im life, and E dey see everything wey e dey do.		Yet, the Bible reminds us: " God 's eyes are upon the ways of a man, and He sees all his steps.
E still gree make one Witness come dey study Bible with am. Na What Does the Bible Really Teach? dem dey use.		Ummi also agreed to discuss the more recent book What Does the Bible Really Teach?
Even if problem come, no tire to dey do things wey go make your plan work.		Do not lose heart, even if the road you travel gets bumpy at times.
Even poor man fit get this character and e go make am no put God Kingdom as the number one thing for im life. - Heb.		Even poor people can become victims of materialism and can neglect seeking first the Kingdom. - Heb.
Even though say we no talk plenty things, we fit help other people with better word, and make them know say all of us na one family.		With just a few words, we can help others and give them confidence that they are really a part of 's people.
Even two full sack no dey reach us give people every month.		Two sacks full of literature per month barely met the demand.
For example, Eve and other women go feel pain well well when dem get belle and when dem dey born pikin.		For example, Eve and her female descendants would experience much pain during pregnancy and childbirth.
For many years, na only one elder dem get.		For many years, there was only one elder.
For my mind, person wey dey control im temper na strong person or weak person?		Do I view a mild temper as a sign of strength or of weakness?
For this topic, we don learn why e dey good to tell for prayer wetin dey worry us for mind and to dey read Bible and think about wetin we read.		In summary, we have noted the value of throwing our anxiety on God by means of heartfelt prayer and by reading his Word and meditating on it.
Four things na: Who let am come die for us, why e let am come, wetin e lose, and wetin the death do for our body.		Four factors are: Who gave it, why it was given, what sacrifice was involved, and what real need was filled.
How dey feel about wetin we do for am?		How does feel about what we do for him?
How we take know sey the people wey dey lead for church today no dey preach the correct thing?		How do we know that the clergy of Christendom are not preaching the right message?
I come see sey I need to stop to follow people wey dey like to do amebo.		I also saw the need to stop having close association with people who loved to gossip.
I de travel go preach like this two or three times every week. "		I did that two or three times a week, " says Ionash.
I dey do everything to make sure sey I no do the things wey the flesh want, like to dey fight and quarrel? - Gal.		Am I endeavoring to avoid " the works of the flesh, " such as fits of anger and strife? - Gal.
If na person wey no too dey worry imself about religion matter, we fit ask am sey, " You don hear this proverb before? "		Or if we are preaching to someone who is secular - minded, we might ask, " Have you ever heard this ancient proverb? "
If we dey always preach, how e go take help us put mind for the main thing?		How can having a regular share in 's work help us remain focused on the big issue?
If we do am, e go come be like sey na that elder we dey follow no be Jesus.		We should not forget that he too is an imperfect human.
If you invite person come your house to follow you enjoy, e fit make una no dey get problem like before, and you go dey look am with better eye.		Extending hospitality to someone can reduce friction and soften hard feelings.
If you no support as King and you fit live forever, you think sey na that time you go happy pass?		Would you be happier if you had absolute independence and everlasting life?
bless Jephthah and im pikin because dem use their mind take do wetin want. come use the two of them well well for im work.		blessed Jephthah and his daughter for their willing sacrifices, and He used both of them to promote true worship.
na God wey dey judge well.		For is a God of justice.
John talk something wey go make us happy, e sey: ' This na wetin we believe for im side, sey, no matter wetin we beg am e dey hear us, if na wetin e want. '		John assures us: " This is the confidence that we have toward him, that no matter what we ask according to his will, he hears us. "
Make wetin we dey do show sey we no dey do partial.		It must be a genuine part of our personality.
Many circuit overseer talk sey dem and their wife dey happy well well even if na small letter person write to thank dem for their visit.		Many circuit overseers have stated how encouraged they and their wives felt after receiving even a short note of gratitude for their visit to a congregation.
Maybe Satan try this one so that the thing wey talk about ' the pikin wey the woman go born ' no go happen.		His purpose may have been to disrupt the arrival of the promised ' offspring of the woman. '
Na later we come know who dem really be. E no really easy for us that time.		In time, though, we found out who they really were.
Na the way we dey live our life and wetin we dey talk go show am. If no be so, our faith never complete.		By our words and deeds - without which our faith would be incomplete.
No use mouth finish your husband or wife for where your children dey.		Avoid saying negative things about your mate in front of your children.
One brother wey im name na Kevin, talk sey: " Since I small, e dey my mind to do full - time work for.		A brother named Kevin says: " Ever since I was a little boy, I have wanted to serve full - time someday.
One time wey Jesus and e disciples de travel pass Samaria, they look for place wey they fit sleep for one Samaritan village.		When journeying with Jesus through Samaria, the disciples sought overnight lodging in a Samaritan village.
Or dem fit dey plan to repair una Kingdom Hall.		Or is your current Kingdom Hall being renovated?
Paul tell Christian dem for Thessalonica sey: ' Una know true true sey day dey come, ' e come still talk sey, e dey come ' like thief for night. '		Paul wrote to fellow believers: " You yourselves know very well that 's day is coming, " and he added, " exactly as a thief in the night. "
Paul tell the brothers for Colossae sey: ' As una be people wey God don choose, wey holy and wey e love, e good make una get good mind, no dey carry shoulder up, dey do things sofri sofri and make una dey patient with unaself.		Paul urged the Colossians: " As God 's chosen ones, holy and loved, clothe yourselves with the tender affections of compassion, kindness, humility, mildness, and patience.
Satan and the people for this world dey bring different different things come out. Some of this things na cloth, hairstyle, food, drink, and things wey people take dey enjoy theirself.		Satan and his world offer ever more alluring choices in dress and grooming, food and drink, recreation and entertainment, and a host of other things.
See the things wey dem dey do as something wey dey show sey love you.		See their help as an expression of God 's love for you.
So I tell them say I go think about - am.		I told them I would think about it.
So make you use better mind, and carry body down go meet your brother or sister to settle the matter.		Simply approach your brother or sister and kindly and humbly try to discuss the matter and settle it.
Some fit no get the power to do the kind work wey dem dey do before for. But dem still dey show sey dem get strong mind and dey do wetin dem fit do.		Some may not be able to do as much as they once did in God 's service, but they can still show courage and go to work.
That one no good at all, na serious problem. Jesus talk sey: ' Anybody wey tell people sey e know me, me self go tell my Papa for heaven sey I know am.		That was a serious problem, particularly in the light of Jesus ' pronouncement: " Everyone. who acknowledges me before men, I will also acknowledge him before my Father who is in the heavens.
That time many of the big big town like Jerusalem get high fence wey surround dem.		Back then, many larger cities - such as Jerusalem - were surrounded by high walls.
The congregation that time for no fit trust Paul. But na one brother wey come from Cyprus wey im name na Joseph help am.		The congregation might have continued to be wary of Paul were it not for a Christian from Cyprus named Joseph.
The husband sey: " I don see sey wetin better pass na for person to put body for work.		I felt that I was immersed in the best activity I 've ever known or experienced, " John says.
The sister talk sey: " Small small, I no come put mind for wetin I plan to do for.		She says: " My spiritual goals started to fade.
The truth be sey, as time dey go, you go need to show dem sey you really serious for wetin you plan.		Sooner or later you will need to show how determined you are to stick to the choices you have made.
Think about how you fit follow wetin this Bible verse talk.		What questions could help you to make practical application?
This brother sell im big house and im business because e know sey that one go give am chance to fit join im wife dey pioneer.		He reflects: " It was hard to give up our beautiful home and property in the country.
This matter reach anything, self? '		Do I really need to make an issue of it? '
This one na better thing for eye. ( Prov. 19: 11; Eccl.		considers it " beauty " on your part " to overlook an offense. "
True true, we go gain from their example because we know sey their story really happen. - Rom.		Indeed, all of this helps us to consider how we should or should not deal with similar issues. - Rom.
WHEN the Jew people wey come be slave reach Babylon, dem see sey na so so juju Babylon people dey serve. Even as e be, some of the Jew people still get faith.		WHEN the Jewish exiles entered ancient Babylon, they saw a city filled with idols and found a people enslaved to wicked spirits.
We get Jesus as our friend.		The gift of friendship.
We marry for February 1959.		Gloria and I got married in February of 1959.
Wetin Adam and Eve do cause problem for their marriage and other marriage wey follow their own.		The rebellion of Adam and Eve had an impact on their marriage and on all marriages thereafter.
Wetin want make you get for mind before you plan?		What plans does recommend for you?
Wetin Matthew do?		How did he respond?
Wetin go help us know how we like money reach?		How might we analyze our view of money?
When dem see sey e don ready, dem come support am.		Once they were certain that she was ready, they supported her decision.
When e be like that, na our hand e dey to think the matter well well before we choose wetin we go do. Make we no just do wetin we like, but make we do the kind thing wey go make happy and wey go make am bless us. - Read Psalm 37: 5.		Under such circumstances, it is our personal responsibility to examine the details and make a choice that is guided, not by mere personal preference, but by what will approve of and bless. - Read Psalm 37: 5.
When we dey for Kingdom Hall, e good make we open our mind well well and allow wetin we dey hear touch us for mind.		While at the meetings, we need to open our minds and hearts and allow what is said to touch us.
Which other thing we go do as we dey wait for?		Why is more required of us than just waiting for to fulfill his promises?
Which question we go answer for this topic?		What questions will this article answer?
Which question we go answer for this topic?		What questions will we address?
Why e be sey if we dey think about how dey feel, e go help us to dey dress well?		Why is modesty a key to making good decisions about dress and grooming?
Why e good make we dey praise people from our mind?		Why must our commendation be sincere?
Why e good make we talk about wetin dey Romans 5: 12?		Why is Romans 5: 12 of interest to 's?
Why you happy sey dey correct you?		Why do you appreciate 's discipline?
Why you thank God for the advice wey dey Romans chapter 8?		Why are you thankful for the counsel in Romans chapter 8?
You Value Bible Well Well? Nov.		Young Ones, Strengthen Your Faith, Sept.
You fit think of anyone?		You can no doubt recall several Bible characters who exercised appropriate restraint when tested.
wey dey March 2007 Awake!		of March 2007, pp. 10 - 12.
Person wey like wetin e dey learn from Bible, go love with im brothers and sisters for congregation.		Furthermore, our love for and our brothers is linked to our love for the Bible.
Jesus talk sey our time go be like Noah time.		Jesus compared conditions then with what we would see in our day.
If we dey do this one, e go show sey we get the new character. This one go help us copy example and make people mind come down. - 2 Cor.		These aspects of the new personality will help us to imitate God and be of comfort to others. - 2 Cor.
How angels take help the brothers wey dey direct?		How did angels assist the governing body?
But, like wetin that brother for Thailand learn, make we no let our work be number one thing for life.		Still, as the brother mentioned above learned, secular work needs to be kept in its proper place.
This one make am praise because Israel people go fit worship God again for their own land.		The restoration of God 's people to their place of true worship would certainly have moved the psalmist to praise.
You dey learn another language?		Are you among those who are learning another language?
How people wey dey follow Jesus go like other people reach?		To what extent do true Christians love their fellow man?
Wetin suppose dey our mind when we dey study and when we dey think about wetin we don learn?		What is our goal when we study and meditate?
When we know the things wey Satan get power to do, how that one de help us?		What advantage do we gain from knowing the extent of Satan 's influence?
Why e no surprise us say sometimes we de tire to preach?		Why is it no wonder that we at times feel discouraged?
Wetin some people dey do when correct dem?		In what ways do some react to divine discipline?
You Still Remember?		Do You Remember?
Many people for im school dey ask am whether e don sabi man.		Schoolmates often asked whether she was still a virgin.
Wetin be one thing wey make am talk like that?		What may have been one reason for this?
Cor. 11: 1 ) From wetin we don see for our own life, we know say the best life na when person de serve.		We know from our own experience how many blessings await those who decide to serve.
Mark 15: 46, 47; Luke 23: 53, 55; John 19: 38 - 40 ) The only person wey Bible talk sey help Joseph na Nicodemus.		The only person specifically stated to have helped Joseph was Nicodemus, who brought burial spices.
My Kingdom No Dey Part of This World "		My Kingdom Is No Part of This World "
We dey thank because e give us the chance to dey worship am together as one.		How grateful we are to have the privilege of worshipping in unity!
Katharina dey 17 years when e tell imself sey e go preach to everybody for where e dey work.		Katharina was 17 years old when she made it her goal to witness to each colleague at work.
After, Rachel wey Jacob love pass come born im first son, and im name na Joseph.		Later, Jacob 's first son by his favored wife, Rachel, was Joseph.
After Paul baptize, e come change. But the Christian that time still dey remember the kind person wey e be before.		Paul made major changes after his baptism, but notoriety followed him.
After that one, e talk sey dem go dey make mouth, dey carry shoulder, and dem go dey do like sey nobody better pass dem.		How would you describe those who are puffed up with pride?
And that one go come help us know how we fit help dem.		In turn, we are in a better position to help and encourage them.
Anytime wey I come house for holiday, dem dey try teach me wetin dem don learn from Bible.		During my summer vacations, they shared with me to the best of their ability what they were learning from the Bible.
As Edward Bazely take talk am		As told by Edward Bazely
As we dey born children, me and my wife dey use our time train dem.		Mairambubu and I were also kept busy raising our growing family.
Because of this one, some of dem dey receive beating, dey go prison, and some don even die self.		Some of them have been tortured, put in prison, and even killed because they stayed faithful to.
Because we try to get the sense wey God de give, we dey as one and we love each other ( Check paragraph 19 )		Servants of seek the wisdom from above and are united in love ( See paragraph 19 )
Because you give your life, how e don take bless you?		What blessings come from dedicating yourself to?
Bible talk sey ' person wey no get faith no go fit do wetin go make God happy, because anybody wey want near God must believe sey e dey, and sey na im dey bless the people wey dey use all their power find am. ' ( Heb. 11: 6, ftn. )		Without faith, " the Bible states, " it is impossible to please God well, for whoever approaches God must believe that he exists and that he becomes the rewarder of those earnestly seeking him. "
But, what if na person for congregation or our family?		But when a fellow believer or a family member says or does something that hurts us deeply, we may be devastated.
But dey warn us.		But gives us clear warnings.
But as the pikin dey grow, im body fit dey move am well well to sleep with person. Na this time the pikin need to really dey sure sey na to do wetin talk better pass. "		But in a few years when the urge to have sex becomes stronger, he or she needs to be thoroughly convinced that obeying 's laws is always the best choice. "
But if na printing machine wey dey use paper print, person wey im work na to print go use one day print 1,300 page!		In contrast, using a press and paper - a more practical alternative - a skilled printer could produce 1,300 pages per day!
Check this topic " Do You Need to Learn Hebrew and Greek? "		See the article " Do You Need to Learn Hebrew and Greek? "
Dem dey dry the seed for sun.		The beans are spread to dry under the sun.
Dem still give am wetin go make am fit do the work and dem guide am.		employed angels to commission, equip, and guide Moses.
E advise Israel people sey: ' Make una dey holy, because me, una God, dey holy. '		He urged the ancient Israelites: " You should be holy, because I, your God, am holy. "
E be like that, even though sey na about 40 people write Bible.		That is so, even though about 40 men wrote the Bible.
E come do everything to make sure sey peace dey. Wetin e come do?		He was determined to make an effort to restore peace.
E fit make us no dey happy, and we fit tire. Jesus Christ dey use the " prince dem " wey Bible talk about take encourage us. The prince dem na elders wey be anointed and elders wey be other sheep.		Jesus Christ, through his anointed brothers and supportive " princes " of the other sheep, provides encouragement and guidance to despondent and discouraged ones in this time of need.
E give two of dem separate separate milk, sugar and coffee, come sey make dem use am make coffee for am.		Then she asked each of the boys to make her a cup of coffee.
E just be like anointing oil; e get fine smell and e good for skin.		It was like anointing oil that was both pleasant and refreshing.
E later tell dem sey: ' Make una no fear.		He later said: " Do not be afraid.
E no always easy to know.		Repentance - or the lack of it - is not always obvious.
E no tey, for December 1945, some Witness people wey dey the town of Angat come preach for our village.		Shortly afterward, in December 1945, a group of 's from the town of Angat came to preach in our village.
E sey: " E get one part wey I handle for meeting. Brothers and sisters come dey answer question, but I no understand wetin dem dey talk.		I was conducting a congregation meeting but did not understand any of the answers given by the brothers and sisters.
E sey Lazarus go come life again for front, " when the last day reach. " Wetin make Martha get mind sey Lazarus go come life again?		Note that Martha spoke of Lazarus ' coming back to life in the future, " on the last day. "
E sweet us to train our pikin and we dey always do things together.		We very much enjoyed rearing our daughters and always tried to do things as a family.
For example, Wilhelm Hildebrandt order plenty The Bible Students Monthly book, for French language.		Wanting to do his part in Kingdom service, Wilhelm Hildebrandt ordered copies of The Bible Students Monthly in French.
For example, e get one small group wey get only 25 publishers for one area.		Take, for example, a small isolated group of 25 publishers in one area.
For the whole world, e nearly reach 2,500 Kingdom Hall wey dem dey build or repair now.		Worldwide, nearly 2,500 Kingdom Halls are currently in the process of being built or extensively renovated.
For this topic, we go talk four things about correction: ( 1 ) to correct yourself, or to control yourself, ( 2 ) correction wey papa and mama dey give pikin, ( 3 ) correction wey elders dey give, and ( 4 ) something wey dey pain pass any correction wey dem fit give person.		Let us now examine four aspects of discipline: ( 1 ) self - discipline, ( 2 ) parental discipline, ( 3 ) discipline within the Christian congregation, and ( 4 ) something that is worse than the temporary pain of discipline.
How God Law take help people wey God use lead for Israel?		What effect did God 's Word have on the men who took the lead?
How bad condition take dey affect us today?		How do distressful conditions affect us now?
How papa and mama wey dey serve go take show sey dem hold tight?		How can Christian parents show loyalty to God?
I happy well well when Brother Miller sey e go follow me go meet the government people.		It touched me that Brother Miller volunteered to go with me to the draft board hearing.
I really get am for mind to be Catholic sister.		I looked forward to my life as a nun.
If 5 elders go dey this new congregation dem, e mean sey na 10,000 ministerial servant go be elder every year.		If 5 elders were to serve in each new congregation, 10,000 ministerial servants would need to qualify as overseers each year.
If we no dey do pass ourself, e still mean sey we go dey respect how other people dey feel and wetin dem think.		Also, modesty includes showing respect for the feelings and opinions of others.
If we no leave, e go help us face wahala wey we think sey we no fit face		can help us to conquer the seemingly unconquerable if we remain faithful to him
Im senior sister, wey im name na Esther, talk sey: ' Young children dey like their papa and mama language, culture, and religion together.		As his sister, Esther, notes, " to young children, their parents ' language, culture, and religion come bundled together. "
dey use ' the better slave wey get sense and wey dem fit trust ' lead and teach im organization for earth. This slave dey under Jesus Christ wey be the ' head for the congregation. ' ( Matt. 24: 45 - 47; Eph.		leads and feeds those in the earthly part of his organization by means of " the faithful and discreet slave " under the direction of Christ, the " head of the congregation. "
still dey use angels protect and help im people		still uses his angels to protect and strengthen his people
Jesus talk sey we no go fit follow am if we love any human being pass am.		Jesus said that if we were to put any human before him, we would not be worthy of him.
Jesus tell e disciples say: " When wuna enter any house, greet the people for the house. "		When you enter the house, " Jesus told his disciples, " greet the household. "
Later dem pack go another country. But e get some things wey no easy for dem like, to learn new language, how people for there dey do things, and the weather.		Eventually, when they arrived in a foreign country, they found that praying to and relying on him helped them to overcome such obstacles as learning a new language, adjusting to a new culture, and enduring difficult climates.
Like Abraham, fit see im servant today wey get hope to live forever for earth as righteous people wey get faith.		can in a similar way consider as righteous the faithful Christians today who have the Bible - based hope of living forever on earth.
Like that tree wey don already grow root for where dem first plant am, you don first get some tight friend for your former congregation. And the way you dey do things for the former congregation don master you.		In your previous congregation, you had grown " roots " as you developed cherished friendships and settled into a familiar spiritual routine.
MAKE I tell una how e take happen.		Let me explain.
Make we no let our work, enjoyment, and money to be number one thing for life.		We today are likewise determined to remain steadfast in our love for Christ, keeping secular work, recreation, and material things in their proper place.
Make we talk about the three things wey help the apostles and elders wey direct congregation matter for apostle time.		Let us consider the same three factors that directed the governing body in the first century.
Many brothers and sisters dey fill form sey dem want be regular or auxiliary pioneer.		Many brothers and sisters are applying to serve as regular or auxiliary pioneers.
Na different different way dey use holy spirit mold us.		Holy spirit is able to mold us in a number of ways.
Na dirty water we dey drink. The food wey we dey eat na garden egg and something wey be like beans.		We drank putrid water and ate mostly lentils and eggplants.
Na seven children we get and all of dem na boys.		As deaf parents, we raised seven hearing boys.
Na this one make Paul tell Timothy sey: " Continue to dey put your mind to dey read for public, to dey give advice, to dey teach.		Paul urged Timothy: " Continue applying yourself to public reading, to exhortation, to teaching.
No forget sey dey bless people for the whole earth wey dey use all their mind contribute so that this work go go well. - Luke 21: 1 - 4.		Remember that is blessing the Kingdom proclaimers earth wide who humbly and loyally contribute what they can to help finance such projects. - Luke 21: 1 - 4.
One man wey im name na Diotrephes, wey dey the congregation, no want help brothers and sisters wey visit the congregation.		For some reason, a member of the Christian congregation named Diotrephes was not willing to show hospitality to traveling Christians.
So, I come baptize for our next circuit assembly for where dem dey call Brookings for November 12, 1949.		The galvanized steel trough was the baptismal " pool " for four of us on November 12, 1949.
So if I dey waka, I dey bend go one side and I dey quick tire. "		So I walk with a limp and tire out quickly. "
Some people come dey talk lie lie to make brothers faith weak and scatter congregation.		Individuals who were spreading false teachings tried to weaken and divide congregations.
Tell People the Good News About God Favor, July		They Broke Free From False Religion, Nov.
The example of one king for Judah wey e name na Rehoboam, fit help us get the answer.		The example of Rehoboam, king of Judah, can help us find the answer.
The first example of person wey dem bring come back to life na for prophet Elijah time. This one happen when God give am power to do miracle.		The first resurrection occurred at a time when God was empowering his prophet Elijah to work miracles.
The governor main work na to collect tax give Rome, and e go still make sure sey wahala no dey.		His main concern was to collect taxes for Rome and to maintain peace and order.
The kind eye wey you take dey look some people: E get person for your congregation wey dey do wetin you no like?		Your feelings about others: Is there someone in your congregation who rubs you the wrong way?
The man na leader for Anglican church.		The school principal, an Anglican clergyman, expelled me for being " an unsatisfactory character. "
The more we dey sabi how dey think, the more we go know wetin e want make we do for any matter. - Ezek. 11: 19, ftn.		The more familiar we are with 's thoughts, the more our heart will become sensitive to his guidance. - Ezek. 11: 19, ftn.
The same thing fit still happen to us today.		The same is true of us.
The truth be sey, if the verse wey you read too many, people go quick forget am. So choose the verse wey go bring out the main point.		In fact, using too many scriptures could result in none of them standing out in the mind of your listeners.
This one na part of the reason why the chief priests and Pharisee people want kill Jesus.		That is related to the reason why the chief priests and the Pharisees planned to kill Jesus.
This person fit be your husband or wife, friend wey near you, or elder for congregation. E fit tell you wetin go make your mind come down and wetin go help you.		A marriage mate, a close friend, or a congregation elder may be able to help you to put your anxiety into perspective.
This verse fit still help us see sey no be small work our elders dey do so that dem fit dey direct us well.		Also, when reading through the list, we might recall the effort that elders in our own congregation are putting forth in our behalf.
Today, many papa and mama don advise their children make dem pioneer and make dem put all their body for God work.		Today, many Christian parents have encouraged their children to take up the full - time ministry and to center their lives on their service to God.
We conduct study with five people wey dey one family.		We conducted a Bible study with one family of five.
We don still learn about the better example of people wey allow God spirit direct dem.		We have also seen that we can learn from good examples of spiritual people.
We tire because of the many things wey we dey do.		Life was very busy, and we were tired.
Wetin Go Comot When God Kingdom Come?		Seeking Riches That Are True, July
Wetin be some things wey we fit do make we de near God more - more?		What are some steps we can take to progress spiritually?
Wetin dey Bible fit help you live your life well, help you make you no put hand for things wey fit bring problem, and help you make you no too dey worry.		The Bible contains practical spiritual guidance that can help you to avoid, reduce, or deal with anxiety.
Wetin make am learn am? Na because e want use am help one congregation wey dey speak Swahili for one city wey dem dey call Brisbane.		For example, a pioneer sister in Australia named Tiffany learned Swahili in order to be of help to a Swahili - language congregation in the city of Brisbane.
Wetin make the preaching work for Britain slow down that time?		What had caused the field ministry to lose its impetus in Britain?
Wetin we fit do to help our brothers and sisters wey be refugee?		How can we help our brothers and sisters who are refugees?
Wetin we learn from this story?		What does this experience show?
When Bible talk sey ' mek endurance finish im work ', wetin e mean?		What does it mean to " let endurance complete its work "?
When Jesus dey with dem, e do things wey show sey e get strong mind. ( Matt.		They had seen the courage Jesus displayed.
Which Bible verse fit help people wey their person die?		Which scriptures can comfort the bereaved?
Which kind mind we go take follow the government wey dey this world?		How should we treat those who have authority in the government?
Why e be like that be sey, na life and death matter.		In fact, it is a life - and - death matter.
Yes, we go ' do things wey show sey we dey serve God well. ' So, make we see wetin we fit learn from Noah, David, and other people wey serve God well, wey trust am and do wetin dem fit do.		In this regard, let us consider what we can learn from the examples of Noah, David, and other faithful servants of God who relied on and took appropriate action.
You get anybody wey dey serve well wey you dey follow im example?		Do you have a spiritual mentor?
Make una dey change how una dey think and the kind person wey una be. ' - ROM.		Be transformed by making your mind over. " - ROM.
[CONTENT_REMOVED]		See the suggestions found in Benefit From Theocratic Ministry School Education, pages 181 to 184, under the subheading " Properly Control Your Air Supply. " )
Think am like this. For engine to work well, e need oil.		Like oil that lubricates a machine, those godly qualities allow for a smooth peacemaking process.
Why the horse get different color?		Why are the horses of different colors?
Or, you want change because you no want make your papa and mama dey put eye for your body?		Or might you want to move because you expect to have less supervision or less work?
This one mean sey Jephthah pikin no go marry, or born pikin.		She thus relinquished the right to marry, to have children, and to preserve the family name and inheritance.
One way go take show im favor na when e go resurrect people wey dey ' Grave. '		One of the greatest earthly demonstrations of 's marvelous kindness will be the resurrection of humans from " the Grave. "
Jesus like Bible, and e sweet am to tell people wetin dey inside.		Jesus loved God 's Word, and he was eager to share it with others.
As God use Adam rib make the first woman, e go don help dem know sey two of dem na one.		God 's use of a rib from Adam in creating the first woman could have impressed on the first human couple the closeness of their union.
How Psalm 34: 22 take show sey we no need to let wetin we do to dey over worry us?		How does Psalm 34: 22 indicate that God 's servants need not be overwhelmed by guilt?
Why we believe sey, now, Jesus know when Armageddon go come?		Why can we believe that Jesus now knows when Armageddon will occur?
E hear sey dem need people wey go preach for Albania. For 1993, e come travel from Italy go there. The sister no get work, but e know sey go take care of am.		For example, when Lucia * learned of the need for ministers in Albania, she moved there from Italy in 1993 with no means of support, trusting fully in.
How this world take be like thief wey dem want go kill?		In what way might this system of things be compared to a condemned criminal?
hate this thing wey dem dey do. - Read Malachi 2: 13 - 16.		God hated such divorcing. - Read Malachi 2: 13 - 16.
No Forget the Main Thing		Keep Your Eyes on the Big Issue
Abeg, make we no ever use this freedom wey don give us anyhow, and make we no take am play.		May we never misuse this precious gift from or take it for granted.
Rune na one brother wey e don de pioneer for 16 years, e talk say: " I de happy say the Maker of heaven and earth give me the chance to tell people about e name.		Says Rune, a pioneer for 16 years: " Knowing that I have been given the opportunity to be a witness for the Creator of the universe makes me grateful.
David talk sey: " The people wey their God na go happy! " ( Ps.		Happy is the people whose God is!
This one show sey person suppose love imself. Wetin person wey like imself too much dey do?		How would you describe those who have an excessive love of self?
After the third time wey dem lock me for the room, dem come talk sey dem go let me comot if I gree write sey: " I dey comot because I no want serve God again, but I want go serve Satan. "		After doing this three times, they said I could leave if I wrote the following: " I am leaving because I prefer to serve Satan rather than God. " I was shocked.
After we don train people wey dey translate for three and half years, dem come sey make we go back to Malawi go write the story of Witness wey suffer because dem no gree go fight war.		After teaching the course for three and a half years, we were asked to return to Malawi to document the experiences of the who had suffered persecution there for maintaining their Christian neutrality.
And this group be like the different - different party for politics.		That reference to Herod likely refers to the party followers of Herod.
Around two years before e talk that one, e don first tell them say: " As wuna de go, make wuna preach say: ' The Kingdom of heaven don near. ' "		Some two years earlier, Jesus had instructed his apostles: " As you go, preach, saying: ' The Kingdom of the heavens has drawn near. ' "
Because na God get everybody life, wetin some brothers wey go fight war carry for mind sey dem no go do?		What firm stand did the Bible Students take with regard to the sacredness of life?
Bible even talk sey na tell Necho wetin e tell Josiah.		The Bible says that Necho 's words were " from the mouth of God. "
Brother Henschel come tell me sey I go dey help Brother Franz do anything wey e need.		I would regularly read material to him before it was printed.
But, Bible talk sey God go pull dem comot from ground.		God 's Word foretells that the governments and all their dependent organizations will be rocked from their foundations.
But Noah go make our mind come down. '		Noah had hope in God.
But e dey hard some children to preach to their classmate for school.		Some find it difficult to preach to their peers at school.
But people for this world wey Satan dey control no dey happy because things dey bad more more.		In contrast, the world under Satan 's influence mourns, as it were, as conditions worsen.
But when the angel talk sey Daniel ' go stand up and get wetin dem keep for am, ' e mean sey when time reach, go resurrect am. E go tey, after e don die, before this one go happen.		Yet, saying that he would ' stand up for his lot ' in the future amounted to a clear promise of a resurrection to come - long after he had died.
But why we even dey get problem with our brothers self?		But why do such differences arise?
Dem go soon comot all the bad people and the bad things wey dey this world. - Ezek.		They will soon destroy the nations and all wickedness. - Ezek.
Dem sing different different song for one part wey be " Praise Service. " After dem sing finish, Joseph F.		Songs were sung during the opening " Praise Service, " after which Joseph F.
E clear sey dem no treat Joseph well.		The original - language term literally means that he had been " stolen. "
E fit be sey your children go learn the language of the new area for school and from other people. But dem go learn your language when you dey always use your language talk with dem.		Your children will likely learn the local language at school and in their environment, but they learn your language primarily by frequently interacting with you in your language.
E go bad well well if we stop to dey watch!		How tragic it would be if we were to fail to keep on the watch!
E go first comot the stone and other dirty wey fit dey inside.		He first prepared the clay, in part by removing stones and other undesirable matter.
E good make we dey settle down study Bible, and make we like wetin we dey learn. And we still need to allow am change our life so that we go fit choose wetin want.		The key is to be good students of God 's Word, to take to heart what we learn, and to let that knowledge mold us and guide us.
E no hard to know the answer to all this question.		The answers to those questions are not difficult.
E no let the problem make am stop to love.		He did not allow negative circumstances to weigh him down.
E talk sey: " Things come change well well for my family.		He says: " Our family life improved dramatically.
Even after the special preaching for Turkey, big work still dey there. Because of this one, many of the brothers wey come from other country, want go back to Turkey again.		Many of the foreign participants began to think about moving to Turkey to help with the tremendous work still to be done there.
Even as dem suffer the brothers reach and no allow dem marry or take care of their mama and papa wey don old, dem still get strong faith.		Denied the freedom to support their aging parents and to marry, these brothers have remained loyal in spite of severe mistreatment.
Even that kind greeting get power.		Yet, even that can uplift a person, perhaps one who is depressed or sad.
For 1961, dem come tell me sey make I dey work for Treasurer 's Office.		In 1961, I was assigned to work in the Treasurer 's Office under the oversight of Grant Suiter.
For the prayer, Jesus talk wetin de e mind. E want make all the disciples be one, the way e be one with God.		When praying with them, he spoke of his desire that all his disciples be one, just as he and his Father are one.
How apostle Paul take correct Peter, and which question person fit ask?		How was Peter corrected, and what questions arise?
I dey go meet am for advice and I dey copy im example.		He had become a spiritual mentor to me.
I know sey to born my own pikin and to carry another person pikin as my own, no be the same thing. '		I knew that adoption would not be exactly the same as giving birth to my own child. "
I want make you enjoy your life because you dey among people wey dey tell other people about me! "		I want you to enjoy your life as one of my! "
If na your congregation dem come help, show dem how you value dem reach.		If need - greaters serve in your congregation, let them know how much you appreciate them.
If we believe sey know wetin better for us and we follow wetin e talk, we go fit choose wetin good.		With faith in 's way of doing things and the principles that he has kindly provided, we can make wise decisions and prove ourselves steady in all our ways. - Jas.
If we no want ' sleep ' for matter wey concern God, no be only better mind wey we get go help us.		To " keep awake " spiritually means more than just having good intentions.
example show sey e dey help us		Setting the example, is there for us when we need him
make all Israel people mind come down, and e do am one by one.		gave comfort not only to the nation of Israel as a whole but also to each individual.
Jesus and the Angels Dey Your Back, Oct.		Chariots and a Crown Safeguard You, Oct.
Jesus show sey God go bless im disciples for wetin dem leave because of am ( Check paragraph 5 )		Jesus showed that his disciples would be rewarded for their sacrifices ( See paragraph 5 )
Josephus wey write about Jew people talk how Rome army take scatter Jerusalem for the year 70 after Jesus time.		Jewish historian Josephus relates that in 70 C.E., the Roman forces were able to take possession of the Tower of Antonia, adjoining the city wall of Jerusalem, because the guards at the gates were asleep!
Make we talk about wetin happen to one brother.		Consider this real - life situation.
Many people wey get money and high position today no dey behave like Job!		What a contrast to many of the powerful and wealthy in the world!
Me and my wife feel sey as we fit bear the cold weather and the mosquito for Canada, we go fit bear any condition for anywhere.		We thought that if we could take Canada 's ice - cold winters and the annoying mosquitoes in the summer, we should be able to survive adverse circumstances in any assignment.
Na e make for John 15: 4 - 10, Jesus use the word " remain " plenty times.		Jesus stressed the need for endurance by using forms of the word " remain " over and over in the brief passage recorded at John 15: 4 - 10.
Na im make Paul talk sey: ' I dey do everything because of the good news, so that I go fit tell other people. '		Knowing this, Paul said: " I do all things for the sake of the good news, in order to share it with others. "
Na later I come know sey that my workmate no well and stress dey finish am.		Later, I learned that my coworker had been coping with a serious health problem and was under a lot of stress.
Na so e still be for us today. If we dey come meeting, e go show sey we want mek all of us dey together.		In a similar way, we should not stay away from our brothers by not coming to the meetings.
Na this business part Revelation 18: 3 dey talk, when e talk about ' business men. '		Along with the political and religious elements, the greedy commercial system, represented by " the merchants " of Revelation 18: 3, constitutes part of Satan 's world.
Na true sey, ' bless Job for the end pass the beginning. '		Well, though " blessed the last part of Job 's life more than the beginning, " restoration and recovery must have taken time.
Na when we dey do things wey go make we and be tight friend.		It is by maintaining a good relationship with our God,.
No Governing Body member dey feel sey e be leader. Instead, e dey see imself as part of the people wey dey teach and e dey follow anything wey dem talk.		And each member of that body views himself, not as the leader of his fellow brothers, but as one of the " domestics, " fed by the faithful slave and subject to its oversight.
Now, we even get brothers and sisters wey dey translate our book for Kyrgyz language. And dem dey our branch office for Bishkek.		Literature is now regularly translated into Kyrgyz by a translation team at the branch office in Bishkek.
One brother wey come from Turkey talk sey: " One young brother wey im name na Franz Rieter die because e no gree join Hitler army.		One brother from Turkey said: " Franz Reiter was a young brother who was executed because he refused to join Hitler 's army.
One of dem na Mary Zazula wey come from Edmonton, Alberta.		One of the visitors was Mary Zazula from Edmonton, Alberta.
Other angel wey no leave see wetin happen.		That challenge needed to be met.
Paul no think sey na human being or government go fit give person freedom. Instead, im and other Christian do wetin dem fit do to tell people about God Kingdom. And dem still help people know the better thing wey God do as e send Jesus come die for us.		Rather than looking to any human ruler or agency for freedom, Paul and his fellow Christians worked hard to help others learn the good news of God 's Kingdom and the incomparable value of the ransom sacrifice of Christ Jesus.
So, e good make we always get time to go check and study Bible with people wey want learn.		Should we not be diligent in making return visits and conducting Bible studies with interested ones?
So for afternoon, they go give us food.		It took all day, so we were given lunch.
The crown wey dem wear Joshua make am king?		Did the crowning of High Priest Joshua make him a king?
The only book wey dem fit see na 2006 Yearbook of 's.		The only book they could find was the 2006 Yearbook of 's.
The third thing wey go help us na to see the good character wey our brothers and sisters get, like.		Third, appreciation for our role in 's service will grow as we, in imitation of our God, look for the good in others.
This one fit hard.		This may not be easy.
This one mean sey una go dey do wetin sweet, no be to dey gather money and property or ' make people dey praise ' una. - Read Mark 10: 21, 22; John 12: 43.		Seek " treasure in heaven " - 's approval - and not riches or " the glory of men. " - Read Mark 10: 21, 22; John 12: 43.
This two book go help us know how dey think about different different matter so that we fit know wetin we go do.		We also benefit greatly by listening carefully at Christian meetings and participating in them.
This word wey apostle Paul use, show sey for us to fit dey do well for God work, we must try.		In using that word, the apostle Paul stressed that spiritual progress requires effort.
We come see am as chance to preach more.		This was clearly an opportunity to expand our ministry.
We dey invite you to come visit the Bible museum and other museum wey dey our headquarters.		We invite you to visit the Bible museum and the other museums located at headquarters.
We don see am sey to do wetin go save you na serious matter.		As we have seen, working out your own salvation is a serious responsibility.
We need to protect ourself make we no be like dem. This two topic go help us see how our love for and our brothers fit help us. We go still see sey wetin we dey learn for Bible fit protect us.		These articles show how we can fight against the selfish spirit of the world by preserving our love for, for Bible truth, and for our brothers.
Wetin Jesus talk na ' when this world property no dey again, ' no be ' if this world property no dey again. '		Jesus said: " When such [ unrighteous riches ] fail, " not ' if they fail. '
Wetin happen when congregation for the apostle time do wetin the governing body talk?		What resulted when the early congregations observed the decrees decided on by the governing body?
Wetin make you believe sey na Witness people dey preach the correct thing?		Why can you be confident that 's are preaching the right message?
Wetin young people fit do to near more more?		What can young people do to cultivate spirituality?
What if e dey hard you to forget the matter?		Will we allow resentment to fester for years?
What if the husband or wife wey no dey serve want leave the marriage go stay im own?		What if an unbelieving marriage mate chooses to separate?
When Bible sey person dey waka with God, e mean sey the person trust God, e dey support God as King, and e dey let God direct am.		In the Bible, walking with conveys the idea of trusting in him, supporting his sovereignty, and following his lead.
When Jesus dey heaven, im Father teach am many things. Even when e come this earth, e no stop to learn.		After having been instructed by his Father in heaven, Jesus continued to learn during his earthly ministry.
When dem do that one finish, dem make tea for am and talk with am before dem comot.		Then they made her a cup of tea and stayed for a chat.
When we dey go meeting, we dey show sey we want near and im Pikin.		When we go to the meetings, we show that we want to draw closer to him and his Son.
When we reach the branch for Brazil, dem come tell us about Portuguese language wey dem dey speak for there.		When we arrived at the branch in Brazil, we were introduced to the Portuguese language.
When you dey struggle with problem, ' trust and do wetin good '		When dealing with problems, " trust in and do what is good "
Which better example Jesus show us about enjoyment?		What example did Jesus set in the matter of pleasures?
Which kind character go help us? Wetin make this character good?		What spiritual qualities can we work to develop, and why are they important?
Which other good thing our book dem dey do for young people?		What else do our publications help young people to do?
Why? Because people for their family and their friend fit no like wetin dem dey learn.		Still, holding faithfully to Christ 's teachings would be challenging if one 's close friends or family members rejected the truth.
Why we fit talk sey no dey force people do wetin e want?		Why is 's sovereignty not unduly restrictive?
Why we fit talk sey when person marry or start to get children, problem fit come?		Why can we expect that marriage and family life will involve some trials?
You fit still send your contribution to Witness branch office for your country.		It is also possible for you to send donations directly to a legal entity that is used by 's in your country.
You fit tell am sey na make everything, and na im give us life.		Surely you would stress that is the Creator and Life - Giver.
E just be like sey I don useless finish. But when I pray sey make forgive me, e dey help me get up again.		I felt that I was totally unworthy, but when I approached in prayer to beg for his forgiveness, he would pick me up from my fallen state.
E good and e sweet for brothers to dey together as one. " - PS.		How good and how pleasant it is. to dwell together in unity! " - PS.
My children, listen to correction make una get sense. ' - PROV.		My sons,. listen to discipline and become wise. " - PROV.
We dey give ' Caesar the things wey be Caesar own ' if we dey do wetin government talk, if we dey respect people wey dey government, and if we dey pay tax.		We pay back " Caesar 's things to Caesar " when we obey the laws of the government, treat government officials with respect, and pay taxes.
Who Zechariah give the crown? Na Zerubbabel wey be governor of Judah and wey come from David family?		Is Zechariah told to place the crown on the head of Governor Zerubbabel of the tribe of Judah and a descendant of David?
Why baptism be like the ark wey Noah build?		Why can baptism be likened to constructing the ark in Noah 's day?
As e be sey na only one of this book dey for Tokmok, we come use hand take copy am.		And since there was just one copy of this book in Tokmok, we copied it by hand for ourselves.
For many years, David don show sey im na person wey love and wey no dey support bad thing.		For many years, David had been loyal to and upheld justice.
True true, God use Jesus Christ, our Lord, give us life wey no go end as gift. - Rom. 6: 23b.		Yes, " the gift God gives is everlasting life by Christ Jesus our Lord. " - Rom. 6: 23b.
Na im make Israel people no suppose forget sey their God, wey be the true God na ' one. ' - Deut.		The Israelites were to remember that their God, the " true God, " is " one. " - Deut.
Listen to. Trust am to direct you for anything wey you dey do.		Listen to and trust in him in all that you do.
This character need to dey show for the things wey we dey do. If e be like that, people go like to near us.		As you cultivate the fruitage of that spirit, your relationship with others will improve.
How You Go Take Enjoy Your New Congregation?		How Can You Adjust to Your New Congregation?
For the Memorial wey we dey do every year, we dey see the one mind wey this two group get.		What, though, can we individually do to preserve and promote that unity?
Na dem dey teach us things for Bible, dey direct the preaching work for the whole world, and dey arrange how we go use money wey we contribute.		Reflect on their responsibility to supply spiritual food, to oversee the global preaching work, and to manage donated funds.
After we don do wetin we fit do to follow wetin Bible talk, make we leave the matter for hand. Make we get the mind sey when time reach, e go judge the matter well.		When we have done all that we Scripturally can to remedy the situation, we need to leave the matter in 's hands, confident that he will correct it in his own time and way.
And e fit be sey na wetin the Greek language wey dem take write some part for Bible mean.		In the original language of the text, the emphasis seems to be on how that awareness should affect our behavior toward others.
And if the man sperm and the woman egg no meet, the woman no fit get belle.		If fertilization did not occur, a new life did not begin.
And many times, wetin dem want really happen.		For the most part, the scheme worked.
And wetin I go gain if my faith strong for wetin I dey wait for?		And what are the benefits of having a strong faith in what you hope for?
Another thing be sey, show Job the kind power wey E get when E dey tell am about the better better things wey E make.		In addition, helped Job to see His power by telling him about some of the amazing things He created.
Apostates and other people wey no like the organization dey try to put some things wey we get for their website.		Apostates and other opposers try to use our publications on their websites to lure in 's and others.
Around two years before Jesus die, e teach im disciples to pray sey: ' Our Father wey dey heaven, make your name dey holy.		Some two years before Jesus died and provided the ransom sacrifice, he taught his disciples to pray: " Our Father in the heavens, let your name be sanctified.
Because I see sey the things wey dem dey do dey Bible, I come dey follow dem go preach.		I understood that there was a connection between what they were doing and what the Bible says, so I went with them as they preached.
Before the congregation write come back, dem fit use sense ask the refugee about im congregation and im preaching work to know whether e dey do well for there.		In the meantime, they can ask discreet questions about a refugee 's congregation and ministry to discern his spiritual condition.
Before we come serve we fit dey sin and we no know sey God no like wetin we dey do.		Well, before we became Christians, we often sinned, perhaps not realizing how wrong or bad our actions were in God 's eyes.
Bible even talk sey: ' Things go better for people wey dey fear the true God. But e no go better for wicked person, e go quick die. ' ( Eccl.		It is as the wise man wrote: " It will turn out well for those who fear the true God., but it will not turn out well for the wicked one, nor will he prolong his days. "
But, people today no dey follow wetin dey that Law. ( Lev.		However, Christians are not under the Mosaic Law, nor are they obliged to observe it.
But I no let am know sey I no happy.		I tried not to let him know how I felt.
But Israel people no hear word and dem no come get faith, na im make many of dem no enter God rest. ( Num. 14: 30; Josh.		Yet, the Israelites later hardened their hearts and did not exercise faith, so most of them failed to enter into that rest.
But e come mean sey we no go fit do wetin like?		However, does that mean we cannot please?
But for night, earthquake shake the prison, and doors for the prison open.		Then, in the middle of the night, suddenly an earthquake shook the prison and opened its doors.
But make we get am for mind sey, dey see us as e take see the four king.		How kind of to see good in us, as he saw good in those four kings!
But no be wetin I get for mind I see.		But I was disappointed.
But this one no mean sey our matter no concern.		It is more important than the personal happiness of any individual.
Dem dey call the stone pearl. The stone dem get value well well.		Over the years, the merchant had no doubt bought and sold hundreds of pearls.
Dem go first pray make help dem, dem go come open their ear well as the sister dey talk. After dem do this one, dem go fit use Bible tell the sister wetin go make im mind come down and wetin go make am get hope again. - Rom.		After seeking 's direction in prayer and listening carefully to what their sister says, the elders will be in a position to give her reassurance and comfort from God 's Word. - Rom.
E come go ask im priest for church the two question wey e ask the sister.		He went to his priest and asked him the same two questions.
E get one brother wey im name na Riana, e dey 22 years.		Riana is a brother in his early 20 ' s.
E get one month wey I study with 24 different people.		In one month, I managed to conduct 24 Bible studies.
E go still good if e come use Bible encourage your family for house.		It would be good if he also made a friendly shepherding call on your family.
E good make young people think about all the things wey don do for dem.		As a young person, think of all you owe to.
E no pass 20 Bethelite wey dey work for the farm.		Only 15 to 20 members of the Bethel family were assigned to the farm.
E no reach two weeks after Jesus don go heaven wey im disciples choose Matthias so that dem go complete twelve apostles, as Judas Iscariot don comot. Dem check Bible and pray make God direct dem before dem choose am.		Less than two weeks later, Jesus ' disciples consulted the Scriptures, prayed for divine direction, and chose Matthias to replace Judas Iscariot as the 12th apostle.
E stay with many young women wey dem carry from different different place for Persia. All of dem want make Persia king see as dem fine reach so that e go like dem.		She was in daily association with many young women from all over the Persian Empire who were competing for the attention of the king.
E write sey: " Dem draw bush dog and small sheep, small goat and leopard, small cow and lion for the picture.		He recalled pictures of Bible scenes that hung on the walls of his home.
Even though sey we dey make mistake, go see us as e take see dem?		Will God view us as having a complete heart, despite mistakes we make?
FOR Bible, David praise one woman wey im name na Abigail. E tell am sey: ' God go bless you for the better sense wey you get! '		THE above words were spoken by David of ancient Israel in praise of a woman whom he encountered.
For this last days, people don do many things to support work. And dem fit do this things because dey bless dem and Jesus dey direct their work.		All that has been accomplished for true worship in these last days is tangible evidence of 's blessing and Christ 's leadership.
How God take free Paul and other people from sin and death?		How were Paul and others set free from sin and death?
How e be sey we dey talk about the good news of God favor when we dey tell people about the ransom?		When we explain the ransom to people, how are we spreading the good news of God 's undeserved kindness?
How we fit take copy their example? Na when we put mind for the good things wey go happen if we no leave. - Phil.		We can imitate Paul and Silas by keeping in mind the good that comes from serving God faithfully. - Phil.
How you fit help your pikin believe wetin e learn like Timothy?		How can you help build conviction in your children so that they are persuaded to believe, as Timothy was?
I come see sey na the way I dey think dey disturb me before.		My negative attitude had been the main problem.
I no go any school to learn the language. But na when I dey listen as brothers dey speak am for preaching and for meeting, I come fit learn am.		I never had a formal language course, but I learned by listening to brothers in the field service and at the meetings.
I want make we still be friend. But na because I love am na im make I want help am. '		I did not want to lose his friendship, but I wanted to help him because I cared about him. "
If we dey respect and praise elders as we suppose, we dey help dem. How?		By giving the elders appropriate honor and respect while not treating them as celebrities, we are helping them.
Instead, e dey try to get the character wey God spirit dey make person get.		Rather than focus on fleshly works, the spiritually - minded person endeavors to show " the fruitage of the spirit. "
talk sey e be like husband to Israel people that time. ( Isa.		He referred to himself as being like a husband to that ancient nation.
Jesus suffer well well before e die, but e no worry because e want make we get life wey no go end.		So that many might live, he willingly endured a painful death on a stake.
Know where your power reach.		Have realistic expectations.
Like Paul and Silas, the way go take help us fit surprise us.		As in the case of Paul and Silas in Philippi, we may be surprised by what does for us personally.
Make we come learn some things for Bible wey go help us see sey, true true, na only suppose rule.		The Bible provides a basis for such conviction.
Make we get the kind mind wey apostle Paul get, when e talk sey: ' Na bad thing I do if I no preach the Gospel. ' "		We must revive in ourselves the burning conviction of Paul, who cried out: ' Woe to me if I do not preach the Gospel. ' "
Na good thing if your children dey put first for their life, instead of dem to dey popular or dey pursue money for you or for theirself. Let dem know sey this one dey make you happy.		Let them know that you are proud of them when they decide to put first instead of seeking prestige or riches - for themselves or for you.
Na im make e talk sey: ' I don really use all my power fight.		Understandably, Rachel at one point cried out in triumph: " With strenuous wrestlings I have wrestled.
Na that one come be our house.		That became our home.
No stop to do wetin you dey do to support organization, and ' do wetin talk. '		Cherish your place among 's people, and " do not fail to listen to the voice of your God. "
One sister wey don dey serve well, sey: ' When you preach to people about the better things wey God Kingdom go do, you go see sey dem no get hope at all. Dem get the mind sey their problem no go ever end. '		One faithful sister put it this way: " When you talk to others about the blessings of God 's Kingdom, you realize that your listeners have absolutely no hope and that they see their problems as permanent. "
Paul suffer for people hand well well and wetin dey always dey im mind na how e go take help the brothers for congregation.		Paul suffered brutal persecution, and he was always worried about the brothers in the congregations.
Proverbs 4: 23 talk sey: ' For everything wey you go protect, protect your mind, because na there wetin dey give life dey. '		Above all the things that you guard, safeguard your heart, for out of it are the sources of life, " says Proverbs 4: 23.
SONG: 10, 2		SONGS: 10, 2
So, for 536 B.C.E., wey be one year after dem reach Jerusalem, dem dig the temple foundation.		In 536 B.C.E., the foundation of the temple was laid.
So e good make you still show sey you support.		As supporters of true worship, we individually should endeavor to maintain that same Scriptural perspective.
Some people don try to make sure sey dem stop to dey translate Bible to the language wey people sabi. - w17.09, pp.		There has been opposition to the translation of the Bible into common languages. - w17.09, pp.
Still think about the poor woman for Jesus time wey im husband don die.		Think, too, of the needy widow in Jesus ' day.
That time, the branch servant na Brother Pryce Hughes. E really train me well.		Pryce Hughes, the kindly branch servant, took me under his wing.
The Jews talk sey Paul no dey follow Roman law.		The Jews charged Paul with breaking Roman law in at least three ways.
This kind thing dey cause fight.		Such a selfish course leads to strife.
Time dey fly no be small. I don spend 61 years for Bethel.		The 61 years that I have spent at Bethel have passed quickly.
Today, Governing Body dey direct how eight million Witness people dey preach for the whole world. No be small work for dem.		The Governing Body today has the colossal task of overseeing an international preaching work involving over eight million evangelizers.
Two pioneer wey their name na George Rollston and Arthur Willis park dey put water for their radiator. - 1933, for Northern Territory		Pioneers George Rollston and Arthur Willis stop to fill up their car 's radiator. - Northern Territory, 1933
We know sey we dey live for the ending part of the small time wey remain for this world to end, before ' great tribulation ' start! ( Dan.		We know that we are living deep in " the time of the end " and that there cannot be much time left before the " great tribulation " begins!
We marry for 1957.		We got married in 1957.
We must do am if we want life wey no go end.		Our everlasting life depends on our doing so.
We still dey contribute to support brothers and sisters wey dey work for our headquarter, and branch office wey dey different country.		We also donate to support those caring for the work at world headquarters and at branch offices around the earth.
Wetin de help this sister?		How does she deal with this attack?
Wetin go help us use Bible well when we dey preach?		How should we make good use of God 's Word in our ministry?
Wetin the Bible Students do wey show sey dem want comot hand from fake religion?		What bold stand did the early Bible Students take relative to Babylon the Great?
When Moses hand dey up, go dey help Israel people win.		As long as Moses did that, empowered the hands of the Israelites to fight successfully against the Amalekites.
Who born dem to ask that kind question!		How dare the multitudes question church leaders!
Why e no good to dey worry about something wey never happen?		Why should we not worry about what might happen in the future?
You get mind to let people know sey you be Witness?		Do you have the courage to acknowledge Jesus as your King?
take make name dey holy?		the sanctification of 's name?
The last Adam come be spirit wey dey give life. " - 1 COR.		The last Adam became a life - giving spirit. " - 1 COR.
People wey get cool temper dey happy, because dem go get this earth. ' - Matt.		Happy are the mild - tempered, since they will inherit the earth. " - Matt.
dey use Bible, im holy spirit and the things wey Governing Body dey give us take make our mind come down. - Matt.		can soothe our mind, our heart, and our emotions by means of his Word, his holy spirit, and the spiritual food dispensed by the faithful slave. - Matt.
Apostle Paul collect the money wey brothers contribute to help the Christians for Judea.		The apostle Paul collected funds as a relief ministration for the brothers in Judea.
[CONTENT_REMOVED]		See opening image. )
[CONTENT_REMOVED]		See opening pictures. )
Make we still get am for mind sey, if person know sey im husband or wife sleep with another person and e come start to sleep again with that im husband or wife, that one mean sey e don forgive am. After this one, Bible no support make e end the marriage.		It might be added that if a person knows that his or her mate committed adultery and chooses to resume sexual relations with the guilty mate, such an action constitutes forgiveness and removes a Scriptural basis for divorce.
One of dem na one Pharisee wey im name na Saul - one man wey ' dey talk bad things about God, dey suffer God people and wey no get respect. ' ( 1 Tim.		One such person was a Pharisee named Saul - " a blasphemer and a persecutor and an insolent man. "
For God Word to fit change our life, wetin we need to do?		What is needed if God 's Word is to have an effect on us?
How people wey dey direct people take different from people wey dey direct for other religion?		How do those taking the lead among 's differ from those doing so in other religions?
Which kind problem many people dey get today, and wetin this one fit cause?		What kinds of problems do many face today, and with what result?
When we dey patient, we no go dey do ' do me I do you. ' E go help us stand well for side no matter the problem wey we dey face.		Patience can also involve suffering without retaliating and remaining firm and steadfast no matter what may come our way.
Na dey ride this chariot and na anywhere im spirit want, the chariot dey go.		rides on this chariot, and it goes wherever his spirit impels it to go.
How our time take be like Daniel time?		In what ways are our circumstances similar to those of Daniel?
If people want make you do wetin no good, wetin you suppose remember?		When under pressure, what should youths keep in mind?
Wetin person wey e want mature as Christian go do?		What is involved in growing to maturity?
Many people like things wey fine and clean, and dem no want get problem with anybody.		Most people are drawn to things that are clean and beautiful.
Apostle Paul know sey the work about the new covenant get value well well.		The apostle Paul recognized the high value of the ministry.
Dan. 9: 19 - 21 ) We know sey go hear our prayer and give us the power to dey happy as we dey endure suffer.		We too can pour out our concerns to, knowing that he will hear us and strengthen us to endure with joy.
Gideon get strong mind, but that one no make am do anyhow.		Gideon was bold and courageous.
As we dey read Bible, which kind question we fit ask ourself?		When reading the Bible, what questions might we ask ourselves?
And ' e come still get another seven son and three daughter. '		He later " came to have seven more sons and three more daughters. "
And na copper dem take make the mountain. '		The horses pulling the chariots are of different colors.
And this one dey make our Papa for heaven happy. - Ps.		By pursuing peace with others, we demonstrate the depth of our love for them, which is pleasing to our heavenly Father. - Ps.
As the matter dey their mind, dem go follow wetin dem pray about, use Bible and our book dem take find answer for the matter.		With our situation in mind, they act on their prayers by doing research in God 's Word and in our Christian publications.
Because God love us, e send Jesus come die for us because we be sinners. - wp17.6, pp.		Having warm feelings toward Adam 's offspring, God provided Jesus for us while we were yet sinners. - wp17.6, pp.
Because all the men wey they choose get Greek name, e fit don make the mind of this widows really come down.		This may have made them more acceptable to the offended widows.
Because e trust, e do many good things.		By relying on God, Jehoshaphat did much good.
Because of the kind house wey dey some area, we no fit enter go preach.		In some areas, we cannot enter certain apartment buildings and gated communities.
Brother Ray Bopp remember wetin happen. E sey: ' The brothers and sisters spirit come high. '		The audience was electrified, " recalled Ray Bopp.
But, when everybody don see am sey na better King, dem go come support am as King forever.		But after 's sovereignty is vindicated, all will submit everlastingly to his righteous rule.
But I dey happy now pass before.		However, I feel happier now.
But how we fit continue to choose wetin good?		But how can we improve our decision - making skills?
But the sin serious reach to disfellowship person if dem no settle the matter.		But the sin is serious enough to merit disfellowshipping if the matter is not settled.
Dem carry am go keep for Babylon, wey be " the land of Shinar. "		Wickedness is deposited in " the land of Shinar, " or Babylon.
Dem come like the way the sister dey work sotey dem want make e work everyday wey dem dey work. Dem tell am sey im salary go be times three.		The staff was so pleased with her work that she was offered a full - time position at triple her salary.
Dem no dey born person with am, so person need to learn how to dey control imself.		We are not born with an inclination toward self - discipline.
Dem no know sey e get government for heaven wey God don put for Jesus Christ hand. Dem no even know wetin that government go soon do to all this human being government. ( Isa. 9: 6, 7, ftn.; 56: 10; Dan.		They are unaware of the existence and activities of God 's heavenly Kingdom government in the hands of Christ and the role it will play in the impending judgment on all the nations.
E ask am sey, ' Wetin be this " problem, " and how I go take manage am if I marry? '		He asked, " What is this ' tribulation, ' and how would I deal with it if I marry? "
E come dey talk about the good things wey e don do for life.		However, Job temporarily lost the proper perspective.
E dey think about the people for Philippi.		He thinks about the people of Philippi.
E good to know how Jesus take arrange some of the story wey go make us know sey e don start to dey rule for heaven. Wetin e first talk about na ' the better slave wey get sense and wey dem fit trust. '		It is interesting to note the progression that Jesus used when he told the illustrations that became part of the sign of his presence.
E help me and Brother George make we fit translate some of our books for Urdu language. Urdu na the main language for Pakistan.		One of them, an army officer named Sadiq Masih, helped George and me to translate some Bible literature into Urdu, the national language of Pakistan.
E know sey the power wey im Papa give am no be to take am help imself.		Yes, Jesus realized that it was not God 's will that he use such power for his own personal benefit.
E no waste time go tell elders about the matter. And e no come be pioneer or ministerial servant again.		He immediately sought spiritual help, but he no longer qualified to be a pioneer or a ministerial servant.
E put mind for the time wey e go live for paradise. That time, Jesus go dey rule this earth. ( Gen.		He had clearly in mind his hope of living in the new world under the Messiah 's rule.
E sey: " When you still young, remember your God, the Person wey high pass and wey make you. "		No one remains young for long.
E sey: ' Na im be the King of people wey dey rule as king and the Lord of people wey dey rule as lord. The only person wey no go die, and wey dey stay for light wey nobody fit near. No human being don see am or fit see am. '		It explains: " He is the King of those who rule as kings and Lord of those who rule as lords, the one alone having immortality, who dwells in unapproachable light, whom no man has seen or can see. "
E stilI talk about wetin we go do to fit comot the old character kpatakpata.		It also discusses what we can do to keep off the old personality.
E still talk say: " Now I de preach inside our village because my body no too strong again. Before - before, I de travel about 100 miles ( 160 km ) go preach for place wey need dey. And I de use Hungarian language preach. "		I preach in the village, but until recently when my health deteriorated, I also traveled about 100 miles ( 160 km ) to an unassigned territory, where I preached in the Hungarian language.
Even after the heavy rain fall, Noah continue to do wetin like for another 350 years before e die. ( Gen.		And he continued to do so for another 350 years after the Flood.
Even though im papa no serve like Jehoshaphat papa, e no follow am serve juju.		Hezekiah " removed the high places, smashed the sacred pillars, and cut down the sacred pole.
Everybody dey find peace.		People desperately need peace.
For example, if we and person dey talk about God Kingdom, mek we no talk sey we support or sey we no support wetin one politician or their group talk.		For example, when we are talking with someone about God 's Kingdom, we would not say that we agree or disagree with the ideas or opinions of a particular political group or leader.
For example, when give Israel people Law, e share things for other tribes.		Under the Mosaic Law, the Levites did not receive an inheritance as the other tribes did.
For morning, we go preach from house to house and after, we go study Bible with our students. Sometimes we de study with people reach 11 o 'clock for night.		So we would go in the house - to - house work in the morning and then conduct Bible studies the rest of the day, sometimes until 11 o 'clock at night.
For person to dey worry imself too much about any matter, even the one wey serious fit cause wahala. E fit make im mind comot for the things wey matter pass for life - things wey concern God.		Needless anxiety or worry, even about legitimate concerns, can divide a person 's mind and distract him, shutting out the more important spiritual matters of life.
For there, I preach to one woman for street wey im name na Chris Spicer. Even though sey I dey like to preach to deaf people, I no go ever forget when I preach to this woman wey no be deaf.		Although I love to preach to the deaf, I will never forget an experience I had with a hearing woman named Chris Spicer whom I witnessed to on the street.
From left go reach right, for back: Yaroslav, Pavel, Jr., Vitaly		From left to right, back row: Yaroslav, Pavel, Jr., Vitaly
How Bible fit help us when we feel sey our problem don too plenty?		How can God 's Word help when we feel overwhelmed by trials?
How I fit use am help another person?		How can I use this information to help others?
How we dey behave when we get problem, go show whether na really our King.		How we react to a trial shows whether we view as the true Ruler of the universe.
I arrange one district convention for one place wey people know well well wey dem dey call opera house wey dey Manaus.		I organized a district convention in the famous opera house in Manaus.
I happy sey I gree go preach for where Witness people no plenty.		I 'm so glad I took up serving where the need is greater.
If elders want make congregation dey clean and get one mind, dem no go waste time to handle matter for congregation and dem go do am with love.		If unity and cleanness are to be maintained in a congregation, the elders must care for judicial matters promptly and in a loving way.
still dey use our meeting for congregation dey help us make we no too dey worry.		also helps Christians to deal with anxieties by means of weekly congregation meetings.
Jesus happy for all the work wey e do for, and we self fit happy for our own.		Jesus found joy in every one of his assignments, and we can find joy in ours.
Jesus know sey na only God Kingdom fit comot poverty. people no dey put hand for politics and fake religion. But e fit hard many of dem to comot hand finish from business.		Unlike the complete separation that God 's people maintain from politics and false religion, most cannot separate themselves completely from the commercial part of Satan 's world.
Jesus talk sey person wey talk this prayer no go ' think about imself. ' This one mean sey, the person no go dey do wetin e want. Instead, e go use im life dey do wetin God want and na this one go be number one thing for im life. ( Matt.		To use Jesus ' words, a person thus ' disowns himself, ' gives up all rights to himself, and vows to put God 's will above everything else in his life.
Job see the things wey God make, and this one still help am know who be.		Job also saw many of God 's invisible qualities in the visible creation.
Joseph still show us another better example of how to control ourself.		On another occasion, Joseph again set a fine example of self - control.
Like Martha, which better thing you dey wait for?		Like Martha, what joyful event are you looking forward to?
Make we no ever let our brothers mistake make us leave, the God wey we love and dey serve.		Never should we allow the imperfections of our brothers to separate us from the God we love and worship.
Many of us never suffer the kind suffer wey this brothers suffer.		Most of 's people have not had to endure severe persecution.
My body never master the hot weather, and na this problem I go dey face.		My body had not adjusted to the hot, humid weather, and this was to be an ongoing challenge.
Na Jesus go be King for that Kingdom and e go do like, the God wey dey arrange things well. ( 1 Cor.		The Kingdom under Jesus Christ will perfectly reflect the personality of God, who is a God of order.
Na just two sword Jesus need make e use - am teach them important lesson.		Two would be sufficient to teach them a vital lesson.
Na only Daniel never die. E even be like sey e dey around 20 years that time. But talk sey Daniel good for im eye like Noah and Job.		In fact, he may have been in his late teens or early 20 ' s when said that he was just as righteous as Noah and Job.
Na prison I dey when organization tell me sey I go dey the 22nd class of Gilead School.		While there, I received my invitation to the 22nd class of Gilead.
Na the work of the Service Committee for the congregation to quick put you for field service group.		The Congregation Service Committee should promptly assign you to a field service group.
Na this one go help you trust pass before.		As a result, you will strengthen your confidence in.
Na wetin make am use prophet Isaiah tell us sey: ' Me, I be your God, wey dey teach you the thing wey go make life better for you. '		Through the prophet Isaiah, he said: " I, am your God, the One teaching you to benefit yourself. "
Now, our marriage don better. '		We are doing much better now as a couple. "
One single sister invite me to follow am go preach for Japan for three months. E pass 30 years wey the sister do missionary work for there.		Also, I was invited by a single sister who had served as a missionary in Japan for over 30 years to go on a witnessing trip to Japan for three months.
People de praise because of our preaching work, because we dey as one, and because we always dey ready.		The increase we observe, the unity we enjoy, and the watchful attitude that we strive to maintain all contribute to our bringing glory to.
Philippians 2: 3, 4 talk sey: " Make una no use trouble or oversabi do anything, but carry yourself down when you dey do things, with the mind sey other people better pass you. No think about wetin go favor only yourself, but still dey think about wetin go favor other people. "		Consider the admonition found at Philippians 2: 3, 4: " Do nothing out of contentiousness or out of egotism, but with humility consider others superior to you, as you look out not only for your own interests, but also for the interests of others. "
Remember sey all of us na one because we dey follow Jesus example. - Col.		Because true followers of Christ " are all one. " - Col.
STORY ABOUT PEOPLE LIFE		LIFE STORY
Simon Schama wey sabi this kind matter talk sey wetin dem write for this clay pot no be just about person wey want collect im cloth back.		This plea " speaks to us of more than just the desperation of a labourer to get back [ his garment ], " says historian Simon Schama.
So, wetin go fit help us to do everything wey we fit do to dey go our meeting?		So, what will help us to do everything we can to be at our meetings?
So make we do everything wey we fit do to comot hand from sin wey people think sey na small sin.		In appreciation, let us work at overcoming any tendency to give in to what others might consider minor sins.
So we wait for long time, but answer no gree come from the Society.		So we waited and waited, hoping for an answer from the Society, but we kept finding the mailbox empty.
So whether things good or bad, person wey get joy dey happy for inside. ( 1 Thess.		Joy is a state of happiness or gladness that remains whether the conditions around us are pleasant or not.
Some of us dey struggle to even find wetin our family need to survive.		Still others are struggling to provide, not luxury items, but just the basic necessities for their families.
The first topic talk about wetin this one mean and wetin e no mean.		The first article explains what modesty is and what it is not.
The first topic talk why e good make we ready to wait for.		Surpasses All Understanding "
The truth be sey dem make mistake but still see dem as better people.		All four of them made mistakes, but they still gained 's approval.
The way dem give the talk just be like sey na me dem dey talk to.		The information was presented in such an empathetic and concerned way that I was moved to tears.
The word wey dem take write Bible don change as time dey go.		The meaning of words and expressions used in the Bible have changed over time.
Then doctor tell you say make you de chop good food, de do exercise, and change some things for your life.		Your doctor prescribes a program involving diet, exercise, and lifestyle changes.
This film, wey dem still dey call The Drama, bring picture and sound together. As the photo ( or picture ) dey move, the sound dey play follow am.		The Drama, as it was called, combined pictures and slides synchronized with sound and traced man 's history from the time of creation to the end of the Millennium.
This one go make you use all your mind support am.		And it deserves our wholehearted support.
This one make the officer and im whole family be Christian and dem come baptize.		The jailer and his entire family get baptized.
True true, e help dem to fit serve well. - 2 Chron.		Yes, he promoted true worship. - 2 Chron.
WHEN my wife Mairambubu dey inside bus one day, e hear one woman dey talk sey: " People no go die again, and even people wey don die go come back to life. "		DEATH will be no more, and even the dead will be brought back to life.
We dey sure sey the man continue to learn about God after e baptize.		No doubt he continued to add to his knowledge after his baptism.
We don see sey sense dey wetin Bible talk, when e sey: ' To dey put mind for the spirit dey bring life and peace. '		Instead, we see the wisdom of living in line with the inspired assurance: " Setting the mind on the spirit means life and peace. "
We go de enjoy friendship with Jesus, if we de endure as we de preach.		As we endure in bearing fruit, we enjoy Jesus ' friendship.
We go help dem to make their faith strong. Today, na six congregation dey Armavir and na four dey Kurganinsk.		It gives me much joy to know that today there are six congregations in Armavir and four in Kurganinsk.
We write letter give headquarter say we go like make they send us go area wey Witness no plenty.		We wrote to world headquarters, asking to be sent to serve where the need was greater.
Wetin be some things wey we fit do to show sey we love our brothers and sisters for congregation?		What are some examples of practical ways in which we can show love in our congregation?
Wetin fit help you bear am?		How can you cope with the pain that this brings?
Wetin help this brothers and sisters to use their freedom well?		What helped these brothers and sisters to make wise use of their freedom?
Wetin still help Diane?		What further helped Diane to adjust to serving abroad?
When day break, e come dey try to drive the motor come out from where dem park am put. Sister Mildred Willett ( wey later marry Brother John Barr ) come greet us that morning. The sister sabi drive.		The next morning while he was attempting to drive the car out of the garage, missionary Mildred Willett ( who later married John Barr ) came by.
When e tell about im problem, tell am sey: " Na when person dey weak my power dey complete. "		When he expressed his concerns to God, he was told: " My power is being made perfect in weakness. "
When the woman learn wetin Bible talk, e no tey, e come baptize.		The student now understood the Bible 's requirement and got baptized soon thereafter.
Which warning Peter give us?		What strong counsel did Peter give?
Who we fit encourage today, and why?		Whom can we encourage today, and why?
Why give Adam and Eve the law wey dey Genesis 2: 16, 17?		What purpose was served by the law found at Genesis 2: 16, 17?
Why e good make we talk about wetin we fit do to help people wey their person die?		Why do we need to discuss how to provide consolation for the bereaved?
You don finish me. '		You have broken my heart. "
You go believe this promise even if many years don pass?		Yet, what of a promise that a resurrection will occur years, even centuries, in the future?
You no go let person wey dey your side see inside pit. "		You will not allow your loyal one to see the pit. "
No let anybody make una miss wetin God promise. ' - COL.		Let no man deprive you of the prize. " - COL.
If we no want make jealousy grow for our belle, we must try to dey do like wey dey see all of us as one.		To prevent jealousy from taking root in our heart, we must strive to see things from God 's standpoint, viewing our brothers and sisters as members of the same Christian body.
So, work well well so that you no go dey carry shoulder and your faith go strong.		Therefore, work hard to remain humble and strong in faith.
Na better thing do for you as e bring you come im organization.		Try always to treasure, to appreciate, your place in 's organization.
Instead, when we dey teach dem, e good make we help dem see why dem suppose love from their heart.		Rather, as we teach such ones, we ought to emphasize the importance of building a personal relationship with God.
This one show sey, dem get sense wey dey " help dem know the difference between good and bad. " ( Heb.		Rather, they are making progress in having " their powers of discernment trained to distinguish both right and wrong. "
At last, na Elihu and come tell Job wetin make im mind come down. - Job 33: 24, 25; 36: 1, 11; 42: 7, 10.		Finally, Job received encouragement from Elihu and from himself. - Job 33: 24, 25; 36: 1, 11; 42: 7, 10.
Na so fear catch the woman, e come dey shake, e lie down for Jesus front come ' tell am the whole truth. ' - Mark 5: 33.		At this, the frightened and trembling woman fell down before Jesus " and told him the whole truth. " - Mark 5: 33.
If to say na their town this village dey, you think say James and John for behave like that? Maybe they vex because they think say they better pass this people.		We may wonder if James and John would have reacted the same way if the inhospitable village had been in their home region of Galilee.
The Pharisee and Scribe no dey talk about the normal hand wey person dey wash before e chop.		Those religious enemies were not referring to the taking of sanitary measures.
If na to make disciples, e mean say our brothers and sisters for area wey people no de listen to our preaching go be like the different - different branch wey no de produce fruits.		Otherwise, faithful who do not succeed in making disciples because of preaching in an unresponsive territory would be like the barren branches in Jesus ' illustration.
If we put mind do wetin this place talk, we go continue to dey get better sense.		Then, instead of ' rejecting all practical wisdom, ' we will be strengthening this important quality.
Wetin make us no de tire to preach?		Why do we keep sharing in the preaching work?
Wetin we go fit do to show sey we get the kind faith wey Jephthah and im pikin get?		How can we imitate the faith of Jephthah and his daughter?
How Abraham and Sarah take show better example for their marriage?		How did Abraham and Sarah set a good example in their marriage?
Even sometimes when the king dem for Israel no do wetin e like, still help dem win their enemy.		Even when kings were not faithful to him, could give them victory over the enemy for the sake of his own name.
Holy spirit go still help us trowey any bad thing wey dey our mind, and e go help us get better character wey God like.		Additionally, it will help us root out fleshly desires and cultivate qualities pleasing to God.
Another thing wey go help us na to dey think about wetin Jesus teach. We go still think about wetin e do wey show sey e no raise shoulder up. ( Matt.		In particular, we do well to reflect on Jesus ' teachings and his wonderful example of humble service.
But, wetin you fit do to make other people hand strong?		What, though, can you do to strengthen the hands of others?
So if person no de drink too much, e mean say other things no dey wey the person suppose to put for mind?		Does this mean that a Christian has no other factors to consider as long as his use of alcohol is moderate?
John 2: 15 - 17; 5: 19 ) Na when pikin friendship with dey strong, e go fit protect imself from Satan and this world.		A close relationship with is a child 's best defense against Satan, his world, and its ungodly thinking.
E no use the work wey God give am do oga, so that people go know am.		He did not seize upon his assignment to gain prominence.
How the Law wey give Moses take help Jephthah?		What principles in the Mosaic Law may have helped Jephthah?
After person don dey serve God for many years, e fit come dey ' put mind for the flesh. '		After serving God for years, a Christian could begin to set his or her mind on the things of the flesh.
Almost every house wey we go, we dey preach, dey show video, and people dey collect our book. "		At almost every door, we were able to start a conversation, show one of our videos, and leave literature with the householder. "
Brother George Gangas talk sey, ' That convention come make me no want miss any other convention. '		George Gangas said, " That convention generated in me the desire never to miss one. "
But God still dey use im holy spirit bless im people because dem ready to do wetin e want.		Still, God 's holy spirit has been moving his global congregation to grow and prosper.
But e no good make we do am because of wetin we go gain.		Yet, we must do so with a pure motive, avoiding any trace of selfishness.
But if we use the question wey we don talk about for this paragraph, we go see sey wetin this place talk fit help all of us for our life.		However, when we consider a few of the many possible answers to the following questions, we will see that this list of qualifications can benefit all of us in a number of ways.
But now, all of dem don stop this things wey dem dey do.		However, all of them have made significant progress in overcoming their weaknesses.
Dem dey do amebo, dey drink anyhow, dey gamble, dey thief, and dey put hand for sex wey no clean for God eye. '		They gossiped, drank, gambled, stole, and were immoral. "
Dem tell Nabal sey make e give dem ' anything wey e fit give dem. ' ( 1 Sam.		That was hardly an unreasonable request, considering how David and his men had protected Nabal 's interests.
E bad to worry if person no get this things?		If we lack the means to obtain these things, will we not naturally be anxious?
E comot for our house around one o 'clock for night.		He left about one o 'clock the next morning.
E dey 23 years and e talk say: " When you tell people the truth and you no shake for wetin you believe, people fit give you trouble.		Victoria, 23, says: " When you tell the truth and stand up for your beliefs, you might get bullied.
E get any special thing wey happen the time wey e dey write this part?		What significant events occurred when a particular Bible book was written?
E go don think am. E fit know sey im pikin fit be the person wey go come meet am when e come back.		No, for he might well have known that his daughter could be the one who would come out of his house to meet him.
E still join Ahab go fight Syria people even though sey prophet Micaiah warn am.		And despite a warning from the prophet Micaiah, Jehoshaphat joined Ahab in fighting against the Syrians.
E tell am sey make e hold the truth wey e don learn tight.		Stick to the truth you learned, and remember where you learned it.
Even as the sister want die, e still show sey na e support as King.		Even as she approached death, Renee never lost sight of 's sovereignty.
Even though sey want make we choose by ourself, e no want make we enter trouble.		While wants us to make decisions, this is not to our detriment.
FOR November 2010 for London, England, the prize wey dem put for one olden days Chinese pot wey dem use sand sand make na 70 million dollar.		IN November 2010, a bid of nearly 70 million dollars was made in London, England, for an 18th - century Chinese ceramic vase.
For example, don tell us sey make we no serve juju, thief, or dey drink too much.		For example, he forbids sexual immorality, idolatry, stealing, and drunkenness.
For example, e pass 74 years wey one brother wey im name na Peter don dey do full - time work for. For inside this 74 years, e use 35 years work for one branch office for Europe.		For example, a brother named Peter served for more than 74 years in the full - time service, 35 of these at a branch office in Europe.
For example, see the story of Trophim Nsomba, for April 15, 2015, Watchtower, pp.		For example, see the life story of Trophim Nsomba in the April 15, 2015, issue of The Watchtower, pp.
How e take do am?		How did he show his faithfulness?
How people for Bible time take contribute to support people wey dey direct work?		How did faithful ones in the past support the activities of 's representatives financially?
How you think sey the family go feel when this pikin wey dem first disfellowship come dey serve again?		Imagine the family 's joy when this young man was reinstated!
I go come wait make e answer my prayer, and sometimes I dey wait for days or months.		Then I patiently waited - sometimes for days, sometimes for months - for my prayers to be answered.
If papa and elders like how dey rule, dem go dey do like am.		In harmony with that, family heads and elders who love his sovereignty will not be demanding, as if exercising a small sovereignty of their own.
If we do this one, wetin God promise us for Romans 8: 21 go reach our hand.		[CONTENT_REMOVED]
If your answer na yes, e mean sey you be like soft clay for hand, and you go gain as e dey mold you.		In doing so, you prove to be like soft clay in 's hands, ready to be molded to your benefit.
dey give us holy spirit when we dey meeting.		At the meetings, we receive the help of God 's holy spirit.
show many of this god pepper when e send the Ten Plague give dem.		Many of these false gods were dealt devastating blows by through the Ten Plagues.
Make we dey let people know sey we be Witness.		We should let others know that we are 's.
Mek you dey use ' all the example of better word ' wey dey Bible dey check wetin you dey hear for news. - 2 Timothy 1: 13.		And always compare what you hear with " the standard of wholesome words " found in the Bible. - 2 Timothy 1: 13.
My wife tell me sey: " I hear better things today.		I heard wonderful things, " said Mairambubu.
Na im come be School for Kingdom Evangelizers now.		Replaced by the School for Kingdom Evangelizers.
No be so!		Of course not!
No matter our age, all of us go face problem wey go show whether we hold tight. - Jas.		Really, everyone, regardless of his or her age, will encounter situations that require faithfulness to. - Jas.
ONE morning, for one place wey dem dey call Brookings wey dey South Dakota, for U.S.A, everywhere just cold.		ON A crisp morning in Brookings, South Dakota, U.S.A., a chill lingered in the air.
On top that one, many people respect science people pass God. ( Rom.		At the same time, scientists are revered, which draws the attention of the people away from our Creator.
One of dem wey be elder, im wife and their children take me like their family person.		One of these elders and his wife and children view me as family.
One way wey we de make that name holy, na to treat - am special from any other name, and help people to treat - am the same. ( Matt. 6: 9, ftn. )		We sanctify God 's name, among other ways, by regarding it as separate from all other names and by helping others to regard it as holy.
Or for work wey other people follow us do, we fit come dey talk about am like sey na only we do am so that dem go praise us.		Or we might explain things in such a way that only we get the credit for ideas or accomplishments that others also contributed to.
PICTURE WEY DEY FRONT COVER:		COVER IMAGE:
Paul greet many brothers and sisters for there.		Paul sent greetings to many fellow Christians.
People for your school fit dey laugh you because you be Witness.		You may be teased or ridiculed at school for taking a stand as one of 's.
SONG: 90, 87		SONGS: 90, 87
So, e don still use this things wey help am help Governing Body.		Therefore, he has supplied the faithful slave today with the same assistance.
So Jephthah pikin really need better word wey go help am and make im mind come down. Bible tell us sey four days every year, the young women for Israel dey go greet am and tell am better word. ( Judg.		The Bible account states: " It became a custom in Israel: From year to year, the young women of Israel would go to give commendation to the daughter of Jephthah the Gileadite four days in the year. "
So another thing wey go give us more joy, na to dey think about the things wey we dey learn from Bible. - Ps.		Hence, you will develop greater joy by regularly requesting the help of 's spirit and prayerfully meditating on his spirit - inspired Word. - Ps.
So any time wey we go meeting, we dey hear wetin. dey talk, we dey see how e love us reach, and we dey near am more more.		So when we go to the meetings, we listen to what says, feel how much he loves us, and draw closer to him.
So sometimes, we dey think sey na only us dey. And we fit forget sey we get brothers and sisters for the whole world wey dey do work.		As a result, we sometimes feel isolated, and we easily forget the scope of 's work.
Some brothers collect the work because of fear, and because dem feel sey nobody go help dem.		Frightened and vulnerable, a few brothers have given in to such pressures.
The next day, I start to dey work for where dem dey bind ( sew ) book together for 117 Adams Street.		On my second day at Bethel, I began working in the Bindery at 117 Adams Street.
The next year for 1958, I begin pioneer.		I started pioneering the next year, in 1958.
The second example, na about one woman wey be lesbian before ( woman wey dey sleep with woman ).		Some years ago, when someone we will call Rose heard the Kingdom message, she was involved in a lesbian relationship.
The teacher come give the class homework to watch the video wey be Wetin You Go Do If Person Dey Find Your Trouble.		For homework the teacher asked each pupil to view the whiteboard animation Beat a Bully Without Using Your Fists.
The truth be say, if you no greet person or you no answer greeting, e fit be like say you no care about the person, or you no get good character.		In fact, not offering or responding to a greeting may be taken as unloving or as evidence of bad manners.
Then they fit. praise wuna Papa. " - MATT.		Let your light shine before men, so that they may. give glory to your Father. " - MATT.
Think how the brothers and sisters glad as Paul remember them.		Imagine the joy it brought them to know that they were remembered fondly.
This one go help us no put hand for things wey people for this world dey pursue, and wey dem like. ( Gal.		Consider, for example, the patriarch Noah and his family.
This one go make us enjoy the ' sweet word ' wey dey Bible. E go help us remember wetin we read, and we fit use wetin we learn help other people. - Eccl.		We can allow it to linger on our figurative palate so that we can recall the " delightful words " of truth and use them to help others. - Eccl.
To comot hand from all this sin be like fight.		It may require considerable effort for us to fight against such wrong practices; still, it is a fight that we can win.
Today, na six Russian congregation dey New York City.		Today, there are six Russian congregations in New York City.
We fit meet people wey ' dey make mouth, dey gossip people anyhow, no fit control theirself, and wicked finish. ' ( 2 Tim.		We may run into people who are " boastful, haughty, blasphemers,. slanderers, without self - control, fierce. "
Wetin Bible talk about this matter make sense to dem?		Does the Bible 's explanation make sense to them?
Wetin David do so that e go get peace?		How did he find peace?
Wetin Elihu talk about the things wey we dey do to fit serve, and wetin e mean?		What did Elihu say about our efforts to serve, and what did he mean?
Wetin Solomon learn from im papa about how to get strong mind?		What could Solomon learn about courage from his father?
Wetin be one way to remember Governing Body?		What is one way to remember the Governing Body?
Wetin e good make we get for mind? Wetin go help you stop to dey worry about anything?		What can help us not to be anxious over anything and to experience " the peace of God "?
Wetin go help you no tire for your papa and mama?		As a youth, how can you avoid becoming overly frustrated with your parents?
Wetin my mama come do be sey, e come carry three of my small sister, Araceli, Lauri, and Ramoni, go stay for convent ( the place where Catholic sisters wey dey work for the church dey stay ), wey dey for Bilbao.		So she sent my three younger sisters, Araceli, Lauri, and Ramoni, to live with nuns in a convent in the city of Bilbao.
Wetin we go get for mind if we want choose wetin we go do?		What should guide our decisions?
When we dey think about how our life don take better because we dey do wetin Bible talk, we go like wetin we dey learn more more.		Our appreciation for Bible truth will grow when we meditate on ways we benefit from applying it in our lives.
When you dey serve well, and you dey bear any suffer, e show sey you dey support. So, get am for mind sey, value wetin you dey do to support am.		Be assured that treasures your efforts to uphold his sovereignty by your faithful service and endurance of trials.
Which example show sey God servant really trust am, even when things hard? '		What experiences show that God 's people fully trust in him in this challenging environment? '
Which mistake dem Jehoshaphat make, and wetin happen?		Jehoshaphat made what mistakes, and with what results?
Which time this preaching work go stop?		How long would the foretold preaching work continue?
Why e be sey want make we ' do everything wey we fit do ' to get the kind character wey e like?		Why does God expect us to put forth effort to overcome our weaknesses?
Why we no go surprise if our work for organization change?		Why should we not be surprised if our place in God 's arrangement changes from time to time?
Your word make me happy well well, and my belle sweet me as I dey answer your name, O the God wey get army. ' ( Jer.		Your words were found, and I ate them; and your word became to me the exultation and the rejoicing of my heart, for your name has been called on me, O God of armies.
wetin you promise for prayer before you baptize?		your dedication vow?
E dey always talk true, e dey fear God and e no dey do bad. ' - Job 1: 8.		In fact, called him " my servant, " adding: " He is an upright man of integrity, fearing God and shunning what is bad. " - Job 1: 8.
Plan dey fail when dem no talk am together. '		Plans fail when there is no consultation.
The peace wey God dey give wey pass anything wey person fit understand, go protect how una dey feel. ' - PHIL.		The peace of God that surpasses all understanding will guard your hearts. " - PHIL.
People wey dey do this work no suppose dey find wetin go enter their pocket.		Those preaching the message should not seek personal gain for the work that they do.
Christian no suppose get this kind love wey Paul talk about. The people wey get this kind love no be God friend.		This self - centered kind of love is inconsistent with Christian love; it stands in contrast with it.
Even apostle Paul and Peter advise Christian sey make dem dey do good to each other. ( Rom.		The apostles Paul and Peter also exhorted Christians to be hospitable to one another.
Person wey dey carry shoulder no fit be God friend. ( Ps.		Pride hinders approach to God.
Wetin happen around the time wey Ezekiel write wetin dey Ezekiel 14: 14? WHICH problem you dey face?		Under what circumstances did Ezekiel write the words recorded at Ezekiel 14: 14?
Why e go hard us to forgive other people if we dey raise shoulder?		Why is forgiveness a test of humility?
Some things wey we suffer make our faith strong more more and we come ready to do everything wey we fit do to serve well.		Trials have served to refine our faith and strengthen our determination to maintain integrity.
No Put Eye for Only How Person Be for Outside		Can You Look Beyond Outward Appearances?
How people wey no go die for Armageddon go feel, and why?		What relief will Armageddon survivors feel?
Praise With the Way You Dey Dress		Does Your Style of Dress Glorify God?
E get some country wey money no too dey. But many people for there dey enter organization. Na wetin we contribute dey help us fit carry our book dem go this kind place.		Those who have this world 's means but cannot share in the full - time ministry or move abroad have the satisfaction of knowing that their donated funds support the ministry of others.
Wetin dem choose?		What was their response?
Dem must make sure sey wetin dem dey teach come from Bible.		They must always make sure that what they teach is solidly based on God 's Word.
John 15: 19 ) Because we no dey do the bad things wey people for this world dey do, this one dey make people hate us.		To be sure, our way of life does not win us the world 's approval.
But your problem fit be double if your husband or wife no dey serve. If you dey this kind condition, e good make you do wetin want make you do.		If you have an unbelieving mate, you may experience more than the usual stress and anxiety in your marriage.
Nehemiah no only direct the work but e still join dem work.		Nehemiah did not simply oversee the work.
Adria talk sey, " We start to think how we go take make our life simple pass as e simple before. "		And, " says Adria, " we looked for ways to simplify our life even more than we had already done. "
After that one, we wey survive and wey dey alive, no go waste time join this people enter cloud. We go comot go meet the Lord for air; and then we go always dey with the Lord. " - 1 Thess.		Afterward we the living who are surviving will, together with them, be caught away in clouds to meet the Lord in the air; and thus we will always be with the Lord. " - 1 Thess.
After the war, dem put my papa for prison because government no like as my papa dey do im own politics.		After the war, my father was sent to prison because the government did not like his political ideas.
Agur, wey be Jakeh pikin talk for Bible sey: " No make me too poor or make me too rich.		Agur son of Jakeh wrote: " Give me neither poverty nor riches.
And e give them power to rule the world. - Eph.		In the invisible realm, Satan has organized the demons into governments, given them authority, and made them world rulers. - Eph.
As people, we no dey take this warning play.		As 's, we take seriously Jesus ' warning.
As e be for apostle Paul time, many people today dey ' keep something ' or plan how much dem want give, and dem dey put am for the contribution box wey dem write " Worldwide Work. "		As in the apostle Paul 's day, many today " set something aside, " or budget an amount of money, and place it in the congregation contribution box labeled " Worldwide Work. "
As time dey go, e come change im mind.		In time, though, she became convinced that God loved her.
Because your God go bless you as e don promise you. '		For your God will bless you just as he has promised you. "
Because as we take get many part for one body, but all the part no dey do the same work, na so we, even though we many, be one body with Christ. ' - Rom.		For just as we have in one body many members, but the members do not all have the same function, so we, although many, are one body in union with Christ. " - Rom.
Because dem dey preach and teach, dem don make many people wey be ' other sheep ' to fit dey do wetin good for eye.		By their preaching and teaching work, they have brought millions of " other sheep " into a righteous standing before.
Bible talk sey: ' Nothing better pass for person to chop, drink, and enjoy the work wey e dey do. ' ( Eccl.		God 's Word states: " There is nothing better for a man than to eat and drink and find enjoyment in his hard work. "
Bible talk sey: ' When see wetin dem do, how dem take comot hand from the bad things wey dem dey do, e change wetin e talk sey e go do dem. E no come do am again. '		When the true God saw what they did, how they had turned back from their evil ways, he reconsidered the calamity that he said he would bring on them, and he did not bring it.
But, Jesus story let us know wetin want make we dey do.		Yet, this illustration teaches us what expects.
But Hans no still gree join the war till the war end.		However, Hans remained steadfast throughout the war.
But I still dey go church on Sunday, and I no stop to dey pray the Rosary every day.		But I kept going to church on Sundays, and I prayed the Rosary every day.
But one day, I dey preaching with one elder wey see sey I no happy.		But one time, I was preaching with an elder who realized that I was having a bad day.
But we thank because e don teach us how to do am.		We are truly grateful to know how to give honor 's way.
But wetin we know be sey, Joseph no fear again.		At the very least, Joseph was now stirred to action.
But when I remember wetin e teach me for Bible, I come get the mind to ask am.		But remembering all that we had studied together, I found the strength to talk to him.
Dem come send us go Walnut Ridge for Arkansas as special pioneer.		We were assigned to special pioneer in Walnut Ridge, Arkansas.
E DON pass 30 years wey Osei, comot from Ghana go Europe. That time, e never be Witness.		OVER 30 years ago, Osei, who was not a Witness at that time, arrived in Europe from Ghana.
E come tell Nathan sey: ' See, I dey stay for house wey dem use cedar do, but the ark of agreement dey for house wey dem use tent cloth make. '		So he said to Nathan the prophet: " Here I am living in a house of cedars while the ark of the covenant of is under tent cloths. "
E good make we first smile.		A pleasant smile is often the best introduction.
E good make we think about this four things. - wp17.2, pp.		We should meditate on how those factors were involved. - wp17.2, pp.
E know sey time no dey wait for anybody!		He wanted to do it while he had the opportunity!
E no fit do anything about the bad things wey people dey do for temple.		She could hardly do anything about the corrupt practices being carried on at the temple.
E pain me reach bone.		It hurt me deeply.
E still get other example wey don happen before and for our time.		Many other cases in past centuries and in recent times could be cited in which some who served committed bad acts and hurt others.
E still no want make Eve listen to wetin God talk. So, e sey: ' God know sey the day wey una chop am, una eye go open. '		Then he tried to convince Eve that she need not listen to God, saying: " God knows that in the very day you eat from it, your eyes will be opened. "
E talk say: " The thing wey my heart really want for them and wetin I de beg God be say, make them get life.		For I bear them witness that they have a zeal for God, but not according to accurate knowledge. "
E talk sey God no dey rule well, and God no want make better thing reach our hand.		What are Satan 's claims with regard to God 's rulership?
E teach us sey e get why God make everything.		When observing creation, we are impressed with the way all of 's creative works, small and large, serve a beneficial purpose.
Even if the brothers no even understand everything finish that time, Devil no still happy for wetin dem do.		The Devil was clearly angry about the stand the brothers were taking with regard to the war, as imperfect as that stand was.
Even with that one, Jesus know sey ' life better pass food and body better pass cloth. '		Yet, Jesus also realized that ' life means more than food and the body than clothing. '
Even with this one, we still dey see sey we need more people to do this work.		At the same time, we see increased demands for more workers.
FOR that time, na Rome dey control Judea. The Romans dey use governor wey get many soldier dey control Judea.		DURING this time, Judea was ruled by the Romans, who were represented by a governor with troops at his command.
For my mind, I don fail for the work wey they give me. So, I go back to Karachi.		I moved back to Karachi and then to London, England, hoping to make a fresh spiritual start.
For our time, dey use Governing Body dey teach im people and warn other people before great tribulation start.		Today, is using a small group of his anointed servants to feed his people and warn others before the outbreak of the great tribulation.
How we fit know wetin we go do wey e go make happy?		In such areas, how can we determine what is acceptable and pleasing to God?
I come dey go meet dem small small, even if I no know whether dem go kill me.		Cautiously, I approached them, not knowing whether I would live or die.
If we value God Kingdom the way the business man take value the stone, wetin we go do?		If we love God 's Kingdom as much as the merchant loved the pearl, what will we do?
If you share the number of people for Turkey give the publishers, e mean sey one publisher get almost 28,000 people to preach to.		This means that the publisher - to - population ratio in Turkey is nearly 1 to 28,000.
Instead, Bible tell us sey God ' dey pity us well well. ' - Eph.		Rather, he is " rich in mercy. " - Eph.
know sey e get many things wey fit make Joshua fear.		Knowing this, instructed Moses to reassure Joshua.
Make we follow all servant for heaven talk sey: ' Make we praise, thank and respect our God wey get the glory, sense, and power, forever and ever.		May we join our voices with those of God 's faithful heavenly creatures in saying: " Let the praise and the glory and the wisdom and the thanksgiving and the honor and the power and the strength be to our God forever and ever.
Make we no dey do like people wey dey this world. Na true sey e no bad to use internet talk to our family member or our friend.		Or they spend a great deal of time looking at pictures of or reading about such individuals.
McLain ), Oct.		Oct.
Moses see hand for the matter.		Moses saw 's hand in the matter.
Na spirit go help dem fit think the matter well, pity for the person, and judge the matter well. - Ex.		Above all, they needed 's holy spirit, which would enable them to reflect his insight, mercy, and justice. - Ex.
Na Jesus Christ be the only person wey we suppose copy. ( 1 Pet.		Christ is the only human who ever lived whom we can consider a perfect role model.
Na im make some of dem wey join fight World War I no use their gun kill anybody.		So even those few brothers who took up arms and entered the trenches during World War I resolutely refused to use those arms to kill another human.
Na their work to train their pikin. So, make dem dey follow dem talk everytime.		Their regular communication in the family is essential.
Noah serve God well for almost 600 years before the rain.		He lived in that world for almost 600 years!
One of dem be sey, the person no dey do promise and fail. Bible talk sey this kind person dey do wetin e promise even when e hard for am. ( Ps.		One quality is being true to our word: " He does not go back on his promise, even when it is bad for him. "
Paul talk sey: ' Love dey make person grow. '		Paul wrote: " Love builds up. "
Person wey get sense dey fit join wetin e know together with wetin e understand, come use dem well. - w16.10, p.		But a person who has wisdom is able to combine knowledge with understanding and use them well. - w16.10, p.
Peter use wetin David talk for Psalm 110: 1 take support wetin e dey talk.		Peter reinforced his point by quoting David 's statement at Psalm 110: 1.
Psalm 40: 8 talk how Jesus like God law reach. E sey: ' O my God, na to do wetin you want na im I want, and your law dey inside my heart. ' Wetin Jesus talk and the things wey e do when e dey this earth, show sey God Law no get comma at all.		Jesus ' deep affection for the law of God was prophetically expressed at Psalm 40: 8: " To do your will, O my God, is my delight, and your law is deep within me. "
So, after this time, many people for Europe and other area start to translate and print Bible for language wey many people fit understand.		In the centuries that followed, many in Europe and other parts of the world began to promote translation and distribution of the Bible for the benefit of the common people.
So after one week dem come meet for one Kingdom Hall.		A week later, the two met at a Kingdom Hall.
That one no mean sey we go take the person as enemy. ( 2 Thess.		That counsel was balanced with the caution not to treat such a person as an enemy.
That time, the sword wey Roman soldier de use long reach about 50 cm ( 20 inches ).		The sword used by Roman infantrymen at the time Paul wrote his letter was about 20 inches ( 50 cm ) long and was designed for hand - to - hand combat.
The Watchtower of May 15, 1979, page 30 - 31 talk about this matter.		This matter was addressed in The Watchtower of May 15, 1979, pages 30 - 31.
The brothers and sisters for apostle Peter time really need to near each other well well, as things dey bad more more.		Christians in Peter 's day needed to draw ever closer as conditions grew worse.
The main god wey Canaan people dey serve na Baal, the god wey dey give pikin. Na im still be god of sky, rain and thunder.		The prominent Canaanite god was Baal, the god of fertility, who also appeared as the god of the sky, rain, and storm.
The place wey dem go, get different different island for where dem dey call Bocas del Toro Archipelago for Caribbean Sea. Dem dey call many of the people wey dey stay there, Guaymi people.		Their new territory was made up of several islands in the Bocas del Toro Archipelago in the Caribbean Sea, mostly inhabited by the indigenous Ngabe people.
The truth be sey, nobody really sitdown study Bible with me.		Well, no one had ever had a formal Bible study with me.
The worse part be sey, dem even try make other brothers and sisters join dem for their bad life.		Worse still, they endeavored to entice their brothers to join them in their contemptuous ways.
Their circuit overseer and other elders help am see things the way dey see am.		Fellow elders and our circuit overseer were invaluable in helping me put things into perspective.
This resurrection go better pass the ones wey happen for Bible time. Because the people wey resurrect that time still die again after some time. - Heb.		That certainly will be " a better resurrection " than that of those in the past when " women received their dead by resurrection " only for them to die again sometime later. - Heb.
This thing wey Jesus talk about love, still dey happen for our time.		Jesus ' prophecy about diminishing love extends to our day.
True true, as Bible talk, for ' last days ' people no go ' sabi thank person. ' ( 2 Tim.		Indeed, just as the Bible foretold, during " the last days " men would be " unthankful. "
We come see sey na dem print the book wey my papa read that time.		We realized that this came from the same group that published those books!
Wetin go do about this wicked thing?		How would deal with this tragic injustice?
Wetin Jesus talk fit no comot all the things wey dey pain Martha for mind, but Martha still believe wetin Jesus talk.		That may not have erased all her sadness; yet, Martha accepted Jesus ' assurance.
Wetin fit help us choose better enjoyment?		What should guide us in choosing our recreation and entertainment?
Wetin go help us no do oversabi even when e no easy, or when other people dey push us to overdo?		And how can we remain modest despite challenging situations or pressure from others?
Wetin go help us no use the freedom wey God give us anyhow?		How can we avoid misusing our God - given freedom?
Wetin make us dey sure sey go fit give us power wey go help us?		How can we be sure that is able to strengthen us?
Wetin we wear fit affect other people?		What effect should our dress have on others?
When I dey 18 years, I start to pioneer.		When I was 18, I started pioneering.
When I dey there, I still dey go Colorado go meet people wey want register me for army.		While there, I made frequent trips back to Colorado to appear before the draft board.
Which advice for Bible you think sey help dem?		What Bible guidelines do you think they applied successfully?
Why God want make im people respect the leaders wey e choose?		Why did God want his people to respect the leaders in Israel?
Why e be sey Jesus sacrifice na better thing?		Why is the ransom such a precious gift?
Why e be sey to overdo things na serious matter?		Why are presumptuous acts serious?
Why e no bad for person to love imself?		Why is it not wrong to have a balanced love of self?
Dem send me, Paul Bruun, and Raymond Leach go preach for Philippines.		Three of us - Paul Bruun, Raymond Leach, and I - were assigned to the Philippines.
But e still hard any Jew wey want serve God well to do everything wey dey the Law. Why?		Still, under a pagan administration, it was impossible for a God - fearing Jew to do everything the Law required.
Bible call this nine character ' the fruit wey the spirit dey bear. '		He described these desirable qualities as forming a whole - " the fruitage of the spirit. "
E talk about wetin we go do so that this world no go dey control the way we dey do business. And e still talk about how we fit put body for work.		It also discusses how we can avoid becoming enslaved to the greedy commercial world and how we can serve as fully as possible.
Joshua no ask wetin e go do, before e do agreement with Gibeon people. ( Josh.		Joshua neglected to seek God 's guidance before concluding a covenant with the Gibeonites.
The time wey Jeremiah dey fear and when life tire am, help am get strong mind.		When Jeremiah was afraid and discouraged, built up that faithful prophet 's confidence.
True true, love you well well and e go use im ' right hand wey good ' take help you get wetin you need to still dey serve am.		Yes, views you as precious, and with his " right hand of righteousness, " he can help you to acquire what you need to keep on serving him.
As John 15: 8 talk - am, why we de preach?		What reason for preaching is found at John 15: 8?
Where we fit see better example of people wey control theirself?		Where can we look for examples of godly qualities?
As Ezekiel 3: 18, 19 and 18: 23 talk - am, why we de preach?		Why do 's words found at Ezekiel 3: 18, 19 and 18: 23 motivate us to keep on preaching?
Wetin go happen to wicked people wey no gree change?		What will be the final outcome for wicked people who refuse to change?
Wetin make us know sey God no dey do partial for any language, and how that one make you feel?		What shows that our God is not partial toward any language group, and how does that make you feel?
E go really touch this brothers, even if na small thing like tie, we dash dem.		Even small gestures, like giving a brother a necktie, mean a lot.
E get another time wey some Russia police come dey follow us go meeting. We no quick know who dem be.		It was also a serious test for us to serve alongside KGB agents who infiltrated the congregations without our realizing it.
Because elders dey try to think like Jesus, e no dey hard dem to know person wey don dey allow im body control am.		Elders who have the mind of Christ often see early warning signs of fleshly thinking.
Rahab believe sey na be the true God. E dey sure sey go help Israel people win Jericho.		Rahab accepted that is the true God, and she trusted that somehow he would give the land to the Israelites.
Dey Pity for People Like		Imitate 's Compassion
After Adam and Eve do wetin God sey make dem no do, come quick make one promise for Genesis 3: 15.		Immediately after the rebellion in Eden, he gave Adam 's future descendants reason to take courage.
After Peter don preach for many years, e write letter give the brothers and sisters for im time.		Toward the end of his long ministry, he wrote to fellow Christians.
And we like as dem dey pity people and dey judge matter well!		How we appreciate their tireless efforts to promote mercy and justice in our congregations!
And wetin go help us get this character?		And what can help us to cultivate this godly trait?
Another better thing happen for 1994. Na that year organization print the first book for Kyrgyz language.		In 1994 we reached another milestone when the first of our publications was printed in the Kyrgyz language.
Anytime wey we sin, we go beg make e forgive us.		When we do give in to sin, we will ask for his forgiveness.
Before the class end, Brother Nathan Knorr tell us where dem dey send us go.		Halfway through the course, Nathan Knorr announced our assignments.
Bible no tell us.		The account does not elaborate.
Bible tell us sey Joseph brothers no treat am well, but that one no make am come dey carry dem for mind.		Joseph 's brothers mistreated him, but he did not harbor resentment.
But, make we no forget wetin make save im people. ( 2 Cor.		However, we must not miss the purpose for which has granted us this freedom.
But Bible talk sey e get one time wey ' dem come provoke for each other. '		The Bible does mention that at one point they had " a sharp burst of anger. "
But Timothy example no be like that.		But not Timothy!
But dem no go do abortion.		Thus, Christians reject abortion as a means of birth control.
But e still get other things wey we need to learn.		However, there are several other aspects of spirituality that we should consider.
But for our conscience to direct us for the right way, we need to train - am.		But in order for our conscience to be an effective guide, it must be properly adjusted, or calibrated.
But now when you don grow small, you fit dey face some kind problem wey you never face before.		Because you cannot always predict what challenges you will face in the future.
But remember sey ' dey give power to person wey don tire, and e dey give more power to people wey don weak. ' So e fit give you the power wey you need to take continue to serve am. ( Isa.		Be assured, however, that the One who " gives power to the tired one and full might to those lacking strength " can give you whatever you need to carry on.
David and im men don dey protect Nabal men and im sheep ' like wall. '		David and his men had been " like a protective wall " for Nabal 's shepherds and flocks.
Dem dey live better life now and dem know sey better things dey wait for dem for front.		Their life has improved, and they know that a wonderful future awaits them.
Dem really want pikin, but pikin no come.		They desperately want children but remain childless.
E dey hard many people wey dey look things wey dey show naked people to stop am.		For many, staying free from pornography is an ongoing battle.
E fit still be sey the person wey dem do bad fit see sey e no need to carry the matter for mind and e go come forgive.		The offended person may see that he no longer has a real reason to find fault and may prefer to forgive.
E get one of our cousin wey dey stay near us wey im name na Nicolas Psarras. Dem want make e join Greece army.		Our neighbor and cousin, Nicolas Psarras, a newly baptized Witness, was conscripted into the Greek army.
E happen just after the apostle dem die.		This happened shortly after the apostles died.
E still tell am make e kill the animal wey dey there.		God 's compassion was appropriate in the Bible examples mentioned above.
E talk sey: " E don tey, wey I dey think how I fit go another country go preach, but e come be like sey I no go ever fit do am. "		She relates: " For years, I thought about serving in a foreign country, but it seemed to be a goal beyond my reach. "
EVERYBODY like to happy.		PEOPLE normally want to live a joyful life.
Even though sey dem need money and dem dey owe money, dem take the money go the address wey dem see inside the passport.		The couple had serious financial problems and were in debt; yet, they decided to take the money to the address listed in the passport.
Even with that one, e dey sweet us well well to tell people wey dey the island wetin talk! - Jer.		But how happy we were proclaiming 's word among the islands! - Jer.
For this two topic, we go talk about the example of four king wey rule for Judah and the mistake wey dem make. We go still see sey some of the mistake serious well well.		In these two articles, we will discuss the examples of four kings of Judah and the mistakes they made, some of which were very serious.
From 1914 go reach 1919, no be everything wey the Bible Students do correct.		Not everything the Bible Students did during the period between 1914 and 1919 was in harmony with Scriptural principles.
Get up make you baptize. " - ACTS 22: 16.		Rise, get baptized. " - ACTS 22: 16.
How Jesus take show sey e sabi mold like im Papa?		How did Jesus reflect the Great Potter 's patience and skill?
I fill Bethel form for one convention for Toronto wey dey Canada.		Therefore, I turned in a Bethel application at that convention in Toronto.
I want make you know sey that time wey you dey give the talk from platform and when I follow you talk, e touch me and I see sey na gift from. "		I want you to know that when you spoke in such a kind way, both from the platform and in person, I felt that it was a gift from. "
If organization tell brothers like, circuit overseer and congregation elders to do something, wetin dem go do?		When directions come from God 's organization, what attitude should brothers, such as circuit overseers and congregation elders, have?
If the pikin don grow, you fit tell am sey wetin dey make apple seed become apple tree, still dey inside the seed.		For an older child, you could explain that the recipe for the apple - in fact, for the entire tree on which it grew - was part of the code in the DNA.
Instead of us to think sey we fit handle the matter by ourself, make we ready to wait until go judge the matter well.		Finally, rather than taking matters into our own hands, let us be determined to be loyal and wait patiently on to correct matters.
go bless us if we carry body down and change our character ( Check paragraph 8 - 10 )		Humbly adjusting our attitude leads to God 's blessing ( See paragraphs 8 - 10 )
hear wetin Jephthah talk. E come help Jephthah win the fight.		listened to Jephthah and helped him to win a total victory.
John talk sey: ' My pikin dem, make we love, no be for talk or for mouth, but make e show for wetin we dey do and make e dey real. '		John wrote: " Little children, we should love, not in word or with the tongue, but in deed and truth. "
Later, this woman become Witness and e preach well well.		Aksamai became a zealous preacher of the good news.
Make we see the example of apostle Peter and John.		Well, consider two of the apostles.
Make we see three things wey we fit learn from how people dey find gold.		In this regard, what can we learn by considering three ways in which gold is found?
Many publishers for Britain start to pioneer		New pioneers flooded into the field in Britain
Many times, wetin the person go talk fit make dem continue to talk about Bible.		The person 's comments often lead to a further discussion of the Bible.
Me and my wife work hard so that we go fit support our pioneer work.		Of course, we had to work hard secularly to support our pioneering.
My second pikin Stephany and im husband Paul, still dey the Bethel wey dey Malawi and im husband dey Branch Committee for there now.		Paul and Stephany are still in Malawi, where Paul serves on the Branch Committee.
Na and the things wey e learn for Bible, help am fit stop all this things. - Heb.		This he did by relying on and on the transforming power of His written Word. - Heb.
Na dey give me power to bear wahala.		s support has always given me the strength to endure.
Na im be the first person to go preach to people wey dem dey call Aborigines and e form new congregation.		He opened up the preaching work among the Aborigines and helped to establish new congregations, becoming well - known and respected throughout the outback.
Na so e still be for some Christian for apostle time.		This was also true of the early Christians.
Na this same time I enter one train from Karachi go Quetta. People for the train plenty sotey I hang for one iron for outside go reach Quetta, for almost all the journey.		Amid that chaos, I boarded an overcrowded train in Karachi and clung precariously to an outside handrail most of the way to Quetta.
Na you fit control wetin you go do anytime person talk or do wetin you no like.		The way you react to situations that have the potential for causing offense lies in your own hands.
No forget wetin still dey for Romans 6: 19, wey talk sey: ' Make una give all the part for una body as slave to do wetin good, wey go bring wetin dey holy. '		Think, too, of Romans 6: 19, which says: " Present your members as slaves to righteousness leading to holiness. "
Or if e get person for una congregation wey Bible don change im life, you fit invite am, make e tell una about im story.		Or if someone in your congregation has made major changes in order to please, you could invite him to join you and share his story.
People for this world want make dem hear their name, make people dey praise dem, make dem fit dey control people, and dem want get plenty money.		She explains: " Fame, honor, power, and riches are transitory and lowly goals in life.
People go wash theirself after they touch dead body.		People had to wash after touching a dead body.
Peter come use the tract preach to dem and e ask dem sey: " Wetin una want use una life do? "		Peter discussed the tract with them and asked: " What will you do with your life? "
Pray make God use im holy spirit give you power; na that power strong pass.		Pray for holy spirit, the most powerful force in the universe.
So, from January 1960 come reach now, na Bethel we still dey.		Thus, January 1960 marked the start of a long career at Bethel.
So for this example, one seed produce 100 seeds.		In this illustration, one grain of seed yielded a hundred grains.
Some of my teacher want make I go university, but wetin dey my mind na to go Bethel.		Although my schoolteachers wanted me to attend university, my goal was to go to Bethel.
Sometimes, this one fit no easy for us.		At times, this may not be easy for us.
The Elders for the congregation wey dey Jerusalem hear one rumor wey the Jews dey spread about Paul, sey e no dey preach wetin dey the law.		The Christian elders of the Jerusalem congregation heard a rumor being spread among the Jews that Paul was preaching " an apostasy from Moses. "
The letter wey the apostle dem write encourage the brothers for their time and e still dey encourage us today ( Check paragraph 12 - 17 )		The apostles ' letters did much to encourage the congregations in the first century, and they build us up to this day ( See paragraphs 12 - 17 )
The truth be sey, e fit hard to know who we suppose praise and where we suppose praise and respect dem reach.		Admittedly, it may take time for us to achieve proper balance in regard to how and to whom we render honor.
The way e take write the story about Jesus dey sweet person to read. The book wey John write for Bible don encourage people for im time come reach our time.		His riveting Gospel account of Jesus ' ministry has been a source of encouragement to Christians throughout the centuries - and still is.
The year before dem born me, one man wey im name na John Papparizos don first preach to my papa and mama. Im na Bible Student, the name wey dem dey call Witness people before.		The year before, my parents had met John Papparizos, a zealous and talkative Bible Student, as 's were then called.
Things like, wetin people believe and how dem dey think. Other things wey fit still affect us na the kind bad life wey people dey live.		These include its doctrines, philosophies, and harmful practices, such as committing immorality, using tobacco, and abusing alcohol and drugs.
This one dey make dem do wetin dem like.		They are focused on the flesh.
This one go make am clear sey, if God no rule us, our own don finish.		In connection with the Devil 's challenge, is allowing time for human experience to reveal the unsavory truth about life outside of God 's righteous rule.
This verse dey remind us sey no go ever fail us if we no stop to serve am, and put im Kingdom first.		This reassured us that as long as we strove to remain faithful to God and put his Kingdom first, he would never fail us.
True true, the way everything take dey work well show sey e get why God make this earth and human being.		Clearly, the order in creation testifies that God has a purpose for earth and mankind.
We dey tell dem make dem come hear talk from Bible.		We used to tell them that there would be a Bible talk.
We no go ever forget the different different zone visit wey we follow do.		We treasure the memories of zone visits to branches.
Wetin be some things wey we fit do make things no too worry us?		What are some practical ways to reduce anxiety?
Wetin dey make dem happy pass?		What is their greatest joy?
Wetin fit help Christian choose better cloth wey dem go wear?		What can help Christians to make good decisions about how to dress?
Wetin fit help us?		What can help you to develop and maintain your interest in others?
Wetin go show sey e come from our mind to forgive our brothers?		How can we show that our forgiveness is genuine?
Wetin person wey kill somebody by mistake go do if e want make dem pity am?		To receive mercy, what decisive action did an unintentional manslayer have to take?
Wetin show sey Christian for apostle time no do like other Jew people?		What shows that first - century Christians learned to overcome deep - seated prejudices?
Wetin we fit learn from Asa mistake?		What can we learn from Asa 's mistake?
When Judas come later sell Jesus, Jesus no stop to serve because of wetin Judas do. And e no still stop to serve im Papa because of wetin Peter do.		When Judas later betrayed him, Christ did not let that defection mar his own relationship with his Father,; nor did Jesus allow Peter 's denial to do that.
When we reach there, we come tell dem sey make dem give us one room. We stay that hotel for nearly one year.		As it turned out, we stayed there for almost a year, which ultimately benefited our ministry.
Why Satan want make us tire?		Why does the Devil want to discourage us?
Why e do am? Because e want make dem know sey na im be the true God. ( 1 Ki.		Asa, however, relied on God, and answered his prayer.
Why e good make we de always talk true?		Why should we speak the truth?
YOU don ever think about the quarrel wey some people get, wey dey Bible?		HAVE you ever thought about the personal conflicts recorded in the Bible?
YOUR enemy come fight you!		YOU are under attack!
You get person for your family wey no want mek you serve?		Do you have a family member who is opposing you?
You go get mind sey you no go do things with am?		Would you take decisive action by ceasing to associate with that person?
Your brother, Peter. '		Your loving brother, Peter. "
many people wey study science and other people wey no first believe sey God dey, don talk why dem come believe.		has often presented interviews with scientists and others who have explained why they now believe in God.
Go make people my disciple for the whole world. Dey baptize dem, dey teach dem to do everything wey I don command una. ' - MATT.		Go,. and make disciples of people of all the nations, baptizing them., teaching them to observe all the things I have commanded you. " - MATT.
Make people know sey you, wey your name na, na only you high pass for the whole world. ' - PS.		May people know that you, whose name is, you alone are the Most High over all the earth. " - PS.
One ' still mean sey get one mind for everything wey e dey do. This one make us know sey e want make all im people be one and make dem get one mind.		The oneness of also implies unity and oneness of purpose, characteristics that we as his worshippers must have as we serve him.
Young man and young woman, make dem praise. ' - PS.		Let them praise the name of. " - PS.
Among people wey dey follow Jesus today, e pass one million people wey dey full - time service. All of dem dey do wetin dem fit do to follow Paul advice.		Jesus ' followers today, including an army of over one million full - time ministers, apply Paul 's counsel to the extent that their circumstances allow.
Wetin dem do show sey dem ready to put body for God work.		In their initial excitement, it seemed that nothing could discourage them.
Dem go need to show sey dem get strong mind when dem dey choose who go be their friend, the kind film wey dem go watch, music wey dem go listen to, or book wey dem go read.		The wise decisions they make about good associations, wholesome entertainment, moral cleanness, and baptism all call for courage.
But we need to get strong heart to preach when the chance come. Bo na one brother and e dey 20 years.		I was afraid to witness to my classmates, " says 20 - year - old Bo.
Abraham and Sarah use their mind do wetin God tell dem as dem travel go the place wey e promise dem.		Abraham and Sarah willingly followed God 's leadings to a land of promise.
Wetin we learn from how dey care for flower?		What do we learn from the way cares for the lilies of the field?
Make We Dey Encourage People Like		Imitating - A God Who Gives Encouragement
When e dey talk about imself, e carry body down and e sey: ' I be the apostle wey small pass. And I no reach person wey dem suppose dey call apostle. '		He admitted: " I am the least of the apostles, and I am not worthy of being called an apostle. "
And e dey teach us wetin we go do to make our life better. tell people wey no gree follow wetin e talk sey: ' See!		To those who reject his advice, says: " You chose what displeased me. Look!
And e give talk for one open place for Angat. E pass 500 people wey listen to im talk.		In my third year of pioneering, Earl Stewart, a brother from the branch office, delivered a talk to over 500 people in the public plaza of Angat.
And e no take long time, answer their prayer. - Acts 4: 29, 31.		And indeed, shortly thereafter, they experienced how answered their prayers for help. - Acts 4: 29, 31.
Apostle Paul help us know how " person wey God spirit dey direct " take different from " person wey im body dey control. "		The apostle Paul helps us to understand what a spiritual person is by drawing a contrast between a " spiritual man " and " a physical man. "
As Walter Markin take talk am		As told by Walter Markin
Because dem believe sey wetin God talk go happen, dem ready to hold tight even if that one go make dem suffer.		Because their hope was so sure, these men and women were prepared to suffer any hardship to remain loyal to God.
Because of the sin wey all of us carry from belly come, we dey do things sometimes wey fit bring quarrel.		Because of our inherited imperfection, we are sure to face situations that cause ill feelings.
Because of the way that verse be for Hebrew language, person fit use two way take translate am.		The Hebrew wording allows for both renderings.
But, na so e really be? E fit no be like that.		However, does it really follow that time by itself will heal a broken heart?
But dem no make us stop to dey serve.		But we never viewed these as a reason to stop serving our faithful God.
But for Bible, answer many question wey dey worry people for mind.		But in his own Book, answers questions weighing on the hearts of people everywhere.
But for this last days, the stress wey work get no be small.		However, in these last days, secular work is often a source of anxiety.
But one day, when we don really tire about the condition, our circuit overseer come our house.		Yet, when we were at our lowest ebb, our circuit overseer, Neville Bromwich, arrived at our door.
But some of dem no gree leave the jolly jolly life wey dem dey enjoy.		Sadly, some would not give up their comfortable life.
But sometimes, e fit no easy to follow that advice.		It may, however, seem difficult to follow that advice.
But what of now? Now wey be sey dey forgive our sin because of im favor, you want continue to dey ' give your body to sin '?		Now that God 's undeserved kindness and resulting forgiveness are available, are you determined no longer ' to present your body to sin '?
Dem rent one big house for one place wey dem dey call Sheffield.		In Sheffield, they rented a large house, to be overseen by a responsible brother.
Dem suffer people wey dey follow Wycliffe well well. Dem stilll make sure sey dem destroy any Wycliffe Bible wey dem see.		The religious authorities persecuted the Lollards and hunted down and destroyed as many copies of the Wycliffe Bible as they could find.
E don tey. ' ( Easily Led - A History of Propaganda ) For example, one man wey come from Britain talk how Assyria people take dey use this style for their enemy. Im name na Professor Philip M.		Easily Led - A History of Propaganda ) The Assyrians, for example, dominated their enemies with " a policy of terror coupled with one of propaganda, " wrote British Professor Philip M.
E get one man wey write about im mama.		Consider what one author wrote about his elderly mother, who suffered from Alzheimer 's disease.
E get time wey you first be elder, ministerial servant, or pioneer and dem come drop you?		Have you ever been hurt by a fellow Christian or by the loss of certain privileges?
E get two type of IUD wey many people dey use today.		Two types of IUDs have come to the fore.
E go ask me: ' Wetin Bible talk? '		He asks: ' What does the Bible say? '
E no easy for to let Jesus come die for us.		provided the ransom at great cost to himself.
E reach about 1,000 people wey come Mexico City for the 1941 Theocratic Assembly.		Some 1,000 came to Mexico City for the 1941 Theocratic Assembly.
E talk sey God no dey rule well and e no want make better thing reach our hand.		He was willing to use the blood of his Son to make possible our eternal salvation.
Even though sey no be David go build the temple, e no let am pain am sotey e no come support Solomon.		David did not withhold his support, brooding over the prospect that the credit for temple construction would not be his.
Even with that one, don use me take teach people Bible. I don even teach people wey go school pass me. I be elder for congregation.		Yet, used me to serve as an elder and to teach precious Bible truths to people who were more educated than I was.
Everyday, we dey face different different problem.		How can we prove true to our dedication vow?
Ezekiel dey Babylon when e write wetin dey Ezekiel 14: 14 for 612 B.C.E.		Ezekiel wrote the words of our theme text in Babylonia in 612 B.C.E.
Fear enter my body as dem close the door for the prison and dem leave only me for there.		It was a dreadful feeling when the door of my cell first slammed shut and I was left alone.
For 1963, na about 160 Witness dey Kyrgyzstan. Many of dem come from Germany, Ukraine, and Russia.		By 1963 there were about 160 in Kyrgyzstan, many of them originally from Germany, Ukraine, and Russia.
For example, Uzziah wey be Judah king serve well for many years.		Uzziah, a king of Judah, proved faithful for years.
For example, many of the things wey dem dey show for TV just be like wetin happen for Sodom and Gomorrah that time.		Much of the entertainment industry today has the characteristics of ancient Sodom and Gomorrah.
For preaching matter, how Witness people take different from church people?		When it comes to preaching the good news, how do the efforts of Christendom compare with those of 's people?
For the years wey don pass, I don see sey people wey dey go church well well no even dey do the things wey Bible talk.		Over the years, I had noticed that people who regularly went to church did not really live by Jesus ' teachings.
From there, dem send dem go do one special work for different different area.		What assignment are they given?
Help dem to enjoy wetin dem dey learn, and make their faith strong.		Make learning exciting, faith strengthening.
How take help am?		How did do that?
How our book dem and our meeting fit help us sabi how dey think for any matter?		How can our publications and meetings help us to get to know what thinks about various matters?
How papa and mama wey dey another language congregation fit help their pikin serve well?		While serving in a foreign field, how can parents train their children spiritually?
How we fit follow apostle Paul advice for Philippians 2: 1 - 4?		In what positive ways can we apply the advice given at Philippians 2: 1 - 4?
How we fit take get sense, and wetin we go gain?		How do we acquire wisdom, and with what benefit?
How we go take help our refugee brothers get strong faith?		How can we strengthen the faith of arriving refugees?
How you fit help ' people wey no dey happy ' and make their mind come down? ( Prov.		How can you strengthen and console those who have " a crushed spirit "?
I come tell dem sey na so take make this earth. E sofri do am, so that e go good for us. "		I explained that God mixed the gases in the atmosphere with similar care - just right for us. "
I happy pass before, because I no get the kind stress and worry wey I get for my former work.		It has made me happier because I do not have the stress and worry that I had with my former job.
If this kind thing happen to us, e good make we ask ourself sey, ' If na Jesus dem do am to, wetin e go do? '		At such times, a good question to ask ourselves is, ' What would Jesus do? '
If your right eye dey make you do bad, make you pull am comot and trowey am. '		If, now, your right eye is making you stumble, tear it out and throw it away from you. "
go help us when we need help.		Finding help at the right time.
like this kind thing well well. - Eph.		When we strive to imitate God 's slowness to anger and his mildness, we follow a course of wisdom that pleases greatly. - Eph.
Many people wey dey serve dey try to live simple life.		Many have found that living a simple life not only makes them happier but also gives them more time to serve.
May Young People " Dey Do Things Wey Go Save Una, " Dec.		Young Ones - " Keep Working Out Your Own Salvation, " Dec.
Na 617 B.C.E. dem carry Ezekiel go Babylon.		Ezekiel was taken into exile in 617 B.C.E.
Na because make human being to be like am. This one dey make us fit copy im fine fine character. - Gen.		Because created humans in his image and thus made it possible for us to reflect his beautiful qualities. - Gen.
Na e make for the letters wey the apostles write to Christians, they call them ' brothers and sisters. ' - Rom.		Thus in their letters, the apostles often referred to fellow disciples as ' brothers and sisters. ' - Rom.
Na for Magazine Department dem dey write the magazine wey different congregation need.		The Magazine Department also filled congregation requests for magazines.
Na only 20 publishers dey the whole island. We no want let am go before.		There were only 20 publishers on the whole island, and we lived over 5,500 miles ( 9,000 km ) away from the island.
Na six city dem build and e easy to run reach there.		The six cities of refuge were easy to access.
Na so e still be, e get many things wey we no fit control. So we need to wait for to do wetin e don promise.		In a similar manner, there are many factors that are beyond our control as we wait for the fulfillment of 's promises.
Na true sey everybody dey make mistake.		Of course, we are all imperfect.
Na true sey no be everybody for congregation today dey travel go far because of God work.		Of course, not all members of the present - day Christian congregation travel great distances for the sake of the good news.
Na true sey we fit ask elders make dem help us when problem dey and when we know about the bad thing wey person for congregation do. ( Lev.		Of course, it is entirely proper to seek assistance from the elders and to inform them if a member of the congregation is guilty of a serious wrong.
No matter wetin happen, know sey like wetin you don do. know sey you don try settle the matter with the brother or sister, wey be im friend.		Whatever the outcome, you can be sure that will be pleased with your sincere efforts to gain your brother - God 's friend.
Paul warn Christian dem sey: ' Make sin no be una oga, because na favor dey control una no be law. '		Paul warned Christians: " Sin must not be master over you, seeing that you are not under law but under undeserved kindness. "
People wey dey serve God dey follow wetin Micah 4: 3 talk. That place show sey dem go change their sword and spear to something wey person take dey do farm work.		In harmony with Micah 4: 3, God 's people " beat their swords into plowshares and their spears into pruning shears. "
Person wey know where e suppose do reach, go do like Jesus.		A modest person will imitate Jesus.
Publishers and pioneers do wetin Governing Body talk for Informant and dem come fit get the one million hours for 1938.		Publishers and pioneers alike responded to the call, reaching the goal of one million hours in 1938.
Revelation 5: 13 talk sey we suppose respect and praise ' the Person wey sitdown for the throne and the Lamb. '		As Revelation 5: 13 indicates, " the One sitting on the throne and. the Lamb " surely deserve to be honored.
Small time, I come join another kind of army.		Before too long, though, I enrolled in a very different army.
So, we fit ask ourself sey: ' Since I baptize come reach now, the way I dey serve dey better?		Hence, we might ask ourselves: ' How has my spiritual life progressed since my baptism?
So save Rehoboam and Jerusalem make they no destroy them. - 2 Chron.		Hence, rescued Rehoboam and Jerusalem from destruction. - 2 Chron.
So wetin Jephthah mean be sey, the person wey e go give go dey work for tabernacle ( house that time ) till the person die.		So Jephthah meant that the person he would give to would serve at the tabernacle for the rest of his or her life.
Some part for this kind stone get gold pass other part for the stone. But the gold wey dey the body, reach for the person to scatter am make e fit get the gold.		Some patches of such rocks contain concentrations of gold high enough to mine the ore and crush it to extract the gold.
That evening, my husband sitdown for bed dey do as if e dey drive the motor.		Arthur spent that evening sitting on the bed, going through imaginary gearshift movements.
That one na problem wey go soon comot. E go comot all government and na im Kingdom wey dey heaven go come dey rule. Na Jesus, im Pikin, be the King wey go rule.		will soon solve that problem of greed by replacing the current political system with the heavenly Kingdom, with his Son serving as King.
The answer dey this two topic.		Find the answers in these articles.
The branch office give me strong correction because I support one side for the problem.		Because I had unwisely taken sides in the dispute, I received strong counsel.
The sister pity for John come tell am sey e go treat the wound.		She noticed John 's injured finger and offered to help.
The work wey some young brothers wey dey Bethel dey do, na to print and bind Bible and other book dem.		Some young brothers in Bethel service have a part in printing and binding Bibles and Bible literature.
True true, na fake religion come dey control dem; dem don be like slave for their hand!		They truly were in Babylonian captivity!
We dey train our pikin.		Child - rearing.
We go answer this question for this topic.		This article will consider these questions.
We like wetin we learn for the School and we think sey dem go tell us make we go back to Nebraska.		We enjoyed the schooling and expected to use our training back in Nebraska.
We still learn sey God love us. And because of this love, e send im Son come die for us so that sin and death go leave us.		We also learned that God lovingly provided the ransom sacrifice of his Son so that we might be freed from sin and death.
Wetin dey happen for congregation sometimes?		What problems might we face within the Christian congregation?
Wetin dey this verse follow for the things wey Moses tell Israel people before e die as dem gather for Moab area. This one happen around 1,473 years before dem born Jesus.		Those words are part of Moses ' parting speech to the nation of Israel gathered on the plains of Moab in the year 1473 B.C.E.
Wetin make e fit talk like that?		Why could he say that?
Wetin we fit learn from the way, Jesus and Paul take tell people word wey make dem strong?		What can we learn from the way, Jesus, and Paul encouraged others?
Wetin we go gain when we know where to praise and respect person reach?		How does rendering honor to others help us?
What if your pikin tell you sey e want baptize?		What are the benefits? What are the costs?
When Jesus dey this earth, which kind partial e disciple need to remove from their heart?		What sort of prejudices did Jesus ' early disciples have to overcome?
When e face things wey e no fit control, e leave the matter for hand.		When there are things that I cannot control, I leave matters in 's hands. "
Which love better pass, and wetin make am better pass?		What is the highest form of love, and why is that so?
Why we fit talk sey to choose na normal thing?		Why should we accept that making decisions is part of life?
You Dey Run Go Meet to Help You?		What You Vow, Pay, " Apr.
You fit dey feel somehow to make friend with people wey come from another place.		You may feel awkward about approaching those from another culture.
Na the thing wey talk na im clean im dirty comot. '		The saying of is what refined him.
No talk sey, " Why e be sey those days better pass now? "		Do not say, ' Why were the former days better than these? '
Nobody fit nack hand for chest sey e no fit fall for bad thing. Make we no think sey nothing dey happen. - 1 Cor.		Second, no one can be complacent, thinking that he is safe from temptation. - 1 Cor.
If we do everything to comot hand from the bad thing wey we do, go see sey we take the matter serious.		He wrote: " What a great earnestness your being saddened in a godly way produced in you, yes, clearing of yourselves, yes, indignation, yes, fear, yes, earnest desire, yes, zeal, yes, righting of the wrong! "
But how dem go take do this big work?		But how could they accomplish such an enormous task?
Wetin we go learn for this topic?		What will we consider in this article?
E don reach 40 years wey Moses dey lead dem. And e want make dem strong so that dem go fit face the wahala wey dey front.		Moses, their leader for the past 40 years, wanted the people to be courageous when facing the challenges ahead.
Another brother wey dey like watch film wey dey show naked people, talk sey: " Elders no dey do wetin good for my eye. "		Another brother, who got into the habit of viewing pornography, later admitted: " I found myself developing a critical attitude toward the elders. "
Instead make you stop to do things with the person, ask yourself: ' The way that brother or sister dey do things, hate am?		So rather than write off any friendship with that one or tend to avoid him, ask yourself: ' Is my brother doing something that is clearly wrong Scripturally?
E go still make am easy for us to show love to all our brothers and sisters for congregation.		These same qualities make it easier for us to get along with all the brothers and sisters in the congregation.
How the freedom wey give Adam, make am different from other animals for garden of Eden?		How did the gift of free will distinguish Adam from other forms of life in Eden?
Which question e good make we ask ourself, and why?		What questions should we ask ourselves, and why?
How one elder take dey prepare for Memorial every year? And how you go take do like am?		How does one elder prepare for the Memorial each year, and how might you do something similar?
How we fit let wetin we read enter our mind?		How can we meditate effectively?
Which better thing the people wey God don choose with im spirit go enjoy for front?		What marvelous privileges will the anointed have in the future?
Joseph na one better example wey Bible talk about.		Joseph was an outstanding example.
Wetin go help you make you fit take all your mind hold the truth?		What can help you to make the truth your own?
We dey try to follow wetin Bible talk. E sey: " E good make una get good mind, no dey carry shoulder up, dey do things sofri sofri and make una dey patient with unaself. " ( Col.		We take to heart the inspired counsel: " Clothe yourselves with the tender affections of compassion, kindness, humility, mildness, and patience. "
Acts 5: 29 ) But e still need to think about the verse wey talk sey make wife dey respect im husband.		But she also needs to think about wifely subjection and being reasonable.
Make we copy this people example. And make we continue to dey happy as we dey give the things wey e give us.		May we likewise continue to find joy and satisfaction in giving back to what has come to us from his own hand.
E come invite us go one Bible study for one village wey near our own.		He invited us to attend a Bible study in a nearby village.
Another thing be sey, if we get real joy, we no go dey pursue money and property. Instead, we go ready to leave some of the things wey we like so that we go fit put God Kingdom as the number one thing for our life. ( Matt.		Also, as a result of having true joy, we will reject a materialistic way of life and will instead seek to make greater personal sacrifices in behalf of God 's Kingdom.
How Zechariah vision fit help us today?		What effect should Zechariah 's visions have on us today?
After Jesus talk the story finish, e come talk wetin dey Psalm 118: 22.		Jesus followed that illustration with a reference to the prophetic statement at Psalm 118: 22, which he quoted.
All this things wey dem do, no stop people wey love Bible. Dem want read and understand am.		But the Church was unable to halt the momentum of God 's Word among those who desired to read and understand it.
All this way to take support work wey we don talk about show sey for person to do this kind contribution, e must plan am well.		The information covered in this brochure may not apply fully to your situation because of tax laws or other laws in your country.
And we dey use am support ' the better slave wey get sense and wey dem fit trust ' as dem dey teach all of us for the whole world. ( Matt.		It contributes to helping " the faithful and discreet slave " to provide spiritual food for the worldwide brotherhood.
Anytime e happen like that, make we settle down study the way dem take explain am, and think about am. ( Acts 17: 11; 1 Tim.		When such new understandings are provided, we ought to take time to study the information carefully and meditate on it.
Anytime wey God people want choose wetin dem go wear, dem dey remember sey everything get time. ( Eccl.		When making decisions about what to wear, God 's servants take into account that " there is a time for every activity and every action. "
Around twelve o 'clock, they go waka sofri - sofri go house.		At noon, they slowly walk home.
As Denton Hopkinson Take Talk Am		As told by Denton Hopkinson
As I dey use this style, e come dey make am easy for me to preach to dem.		The more I use this approach, the easier it gets.
As we don know sey baptism na serious matter, e get three question wey we go talk about: ( 1 ) Wetin Bible talk about baptism?		In view of how serious baptism is, three questions deserve our attention. What does the Bible say about baptism?
Because I no gree, their oga come send me go one island wey dem dey suffer person well well. The island name na Makrnisos ( Makronisi ).		When I refused, the commanding officer ordered me into exile on the dreaded penal isle of Makrnisos ( Makronisi ).
Because Joseph and Nicodemus na big people for Sanhedrin, e fit be sey no be dem carry the body by theirself.		Given the status of these two, it is unlikely that they would have moved the body themselves.
But Adam decide to follow this stranger, and no obey the command from e Papa. ( 1 Tim.		Even so, Adam made a conscious choice to turn his back on his loving heavenly Father and join this stranger in resisting God 's will.
But Israel people no value wetin do for dem as e free dem from slave life wey dem dey live for Egypt.		The Israelites did not appreciate the freedom that bestowed upon them when he delivered them from slavery in Egypt.
But prophet dem no be like that, dem dey always talk true.		s prophets, however, always spoke the truth.
But e get other things wey we fit do to support the preaching work?		But are there other ways in which we can support the Kingdom - preaching work?
But if dem see sey the pikin don dey learn how to balance imself, dem go dey comot hand from the bicycle sometimes.		To illustrate: When a child first learns to ride a bicycle, a parent usually holds the bicycle to steady it.
But no be everybody de accept the good news the first time they hear the good news.		Not all, however, respond favorably to our message, at least not initially.
Dem come get one friend wey im name na Willie Sneddon. This man come from Scotland like my papa and mama.		One of their new acquaintances was Willie Sneddon, who came from Scotland, as they did.
Dem dey happy pass before sey dem dey organization. "		Now they are prouder than ever to be part of God 's organization. "
Dem open the scroll and dem don ready to read am.		It is unrolled, ready to be read.
Dem try well well.		These need - greaters are very much appreciated.
E be like sey dem surprise as the dog dem no do us anything. Or maybe, e surprise dem sey we still dey preach after this kind thing happen to us.		Perhaps they were surprised that the dogs had not harmed us or that we had persevered after such a frightening experience.
E come dey go meeting everytime, dey settle down study Bible, and dey pray everyday.		He started to attend Christian meetings regularly, to study God 's Word earnestly, and to make daily prayer a habit.
E even get mind tell Judah people sey na tell dem to destroy Jerusalem.		He boldly added: ' himself told us to destroy this land. '
E fit easy to imagine person wey dem bring come life after e just die.		It is one thing to imagine bringing to life a person who recently died.
E good make papa and mama dey show sey dem love their pikin and show sey dem no dey carry shoulder up.		It is vital that parents have love for their teenage children and show humility by their example.
E must read Bible everyday. So make you dey read Bible everyday, and continue to go meeting.		Therefore, continue to read the Bible daily and to attend congregation meetings regularly.
E no ever support any side for politics or war.		He never took sides in politics or in wars.
E ride im bicycle pass 200 miles ( 320 km ). And some of the place wey e pass na place wey other people no survive because dem no see water drink.		He pushed his bicycle the final 200 miles ( 320 km ) through areas where men had previously perished from thirst.
E still know the kind house wey go good for us and our family.		He knows what our dietary requirements are and what would be adequate shelter for us, given the size of our family.
E still talk sey: " Na when this kind thing don happen, you go know sey you really need to help and forgive you. "		He also stated: " When you are forced to beg for help and forgiveness, you realize how much you need him. "
E still talk sey the kind things wey go dey happen go hard person to bear. Paul talk about 19 bad character wey people go get for our time.		He then listed 19 negative traits, or qualities, that would characterize people in this time period.
Even some rulers de try to help people.		And individual rulers may have noble intentions.
For example, many people wey dey play gamble get am for mind to win, but dem no fit nack their chest sey dem must win.		For example, millions of gamblers may hope to win a lottery, but they could hardly feel sure about that.
Gideon na one correct person wey no do oversabi.		Gideon is an excellent example of modesty in action.
God Kingdom go turn the whole world to paradise.		In the new world, we will experience to the full the blessings of the spiritual paradise.
Help new publisher know why e good to help brothers and sisters for congregation ( Check paragraphs 13, 14 )		Train new ones to show their love for fellow believers ( See paragraphs 13, 14 )
How? For 2015 service year, na 8,220,105 publisher join preach for the whole world!		Why, during the 2015 service year, 8,220,105 Kingdom publishers have been active in the world field!
How take show us how to dey pity for people?		How does teach his people to manifest compassion?
I don think am well well, come pray about am, I come talk sey I go stop the study.		So after giving the matter much prayerful thought, I decided to stop the study.
I still no want leave only my mama to dey care for my papa wey no well.		She adds: " I also worried about leaving my mother who had to care for my ailing father.
If e be sey the person wey give the news come start to dey support one side, mek we sofri so that we no go come dey think the way dem dey think.		If news organizations or reporters take sides, we must be careful not to start thinking the way they do.
If we dey see our preaching like dew, e go help us see sey the time and power wey all of us take dey preach, one one, no be for nothing.		Comparing our preaching work to dew can also help us to understand that our individual efforts in the ministry are valuable.
If we really sabi how take dey mold us, e go help us use better mind follow brothers and sisters for congregation. E go still help us get better mind for people wey we dey preach to, and our Bible student.		Understanding how God may be molding us can help us in our relationships with fellow believers and in our attitude toward people in our territory, including our Bible students.
Instead, e dey make people think of only wetin go favor dem.		Pursuing selfish goals does not bring people the happiness that they expect.
Witness people today still dey happy even though dem dey suffer dem well well.		s continue to rejoice in their hope despite intense and ongoing persecution.
Just before Jesus die, e notice say some of the disciples de think say e go begin rule for Jerusalem. But Jesus use the example of minas correct wetin the disciples de think.		Shortly before his death, Jesus realized that some of his followers were expecting him to set up an earthly kingdom centered in Jerusalem.
King Solomon talk for Bible sey: " Take all your mind trust,. for everything wey you dey do, put for mind and e go make your way smooth. "		Trust in with all your heart, " wrote Solomon.
Later dem come send me go where dem dey call Feldbach.		Then I was reassigned to Feldbach, southeast of Graz.
Me and my classmate for Gilead		With fellow students at Gilead
Na suppose rule us because na im get power pass and na im make everything. ( 1 Chron.		is the rightful Sovereign of the universe because he is the almighty God and Creator.
Na bad life e dey live before e start to serve. E dey bet, e dey smoke cigar and igbo, and e too dey drink.		For many years, however, he had been involved in gambling, smoking, heavy drinking, and drug abuse.
Na because e know say to live as Christian no go easy. Disciples of Jesus go need to de endure.		Because living as a true disciple of Christ year after year calls for endurance.
Na for Brother Cruz house dem do the meeting, and some of us waka about five miles ( 8 km ) before we reach there.		Several of us walked about five miles ( 8 km ) to get to the meeting in the home of the Cruz family.
Na one of the brothers wey dey do well for congregation go dey direct matter for the place.		The local congregation contributed funds and furniture.
Na people wey dey speak Tandroy language dey stay for the area.		That region is home to the Antandroy people.
No let this character wey people get make you stop to dey watch.		Do not let the apathy of others discourage or dissuade you from keeping on the watch.
Nowadays, we don see sey na people from different different place dey our congregation.		In recent years, the makeup of our congregations has become more diverse and international.
Only am first dey with for heaven.		Consider Jesus ' example.
Or you fit dey sick or life fit tire you because person wey you love well well die.		Or maybe you are seriously sick or are suffering because someone you love died.
Our hope really high because our district overseer want make we go help one congregation for Texas. And e want make we go there as special pioneers.		We had high hopes because our district overseer wanted us to help a congregation down in Texas, and he wanted us to go there as specials.
People laugh prophet Micaiah and Jeremiah because of their faith and dem even put dem for prison.		Because of their faith, such prophets as Micaiah and Jeremiah " received their trial by mockings. and prisons. "
Person wey know where e suppose do reach go always remember sey God high pass am and e give am work for congregation.		A modest person will always remember his place before God and his role in God 's arrangement. Our abilities are not the important thing.
Some people talk sey na name wey people wey live that time bear.		Some think that it was a name unique to that specific time period.
Sometimes, dem fit dey drive the motor turn by turn. But as time dey go, na the pikin go dey drive am pass im papa, because the papa don dey old.		Sometimes they may take turns driving, but eventually the son may do most, if not all, of the driving for his aging father.
THE truth be sey, na small thing we need for life but we no fit count wetin we want.		IT HAS been said that man 's necessities are few, but his wants are infinite.
The circuit overseer tell us sey make we go Ruston for Louisiana because many Witness wey dey there don stop to go meeting.		The circuit overseer asked us to move to Ruston, Louisiana, where a number of had become inactive.
The love wey you get go make you no carry wetin the person do you for mind.		A loving person covers over minor transgressions.
The man na leader for Jew religion wey dem dey call rabbi. So Peter question surprise am.		Somewhat shocked, the man responded that this was a house of Jewish rabbis.
The name of the three town na: Hlybokyy Potik, Serednye Vodyane, and Nyzhnya Apsha.		The names of the towns are Hlybokyy Potik, Serednye Vodyane, and Nyzhnya Apsha.
The wahala wey Job face.		Challenges that Job faced.
This one show sey dem no dey put eye for wetin go favor only dem.		By sacrificing their personal advantage in this way, they demonstrate love that is free of any trace of selfishness.
We fit start to friend person wey no dey serve because we feel sey we no fit see who we go like marry for organization.		A Christian may begin to have romantic feelings for someone who does not love, thinking that a suitable mate cannot be found among true Christians.
We go need to do plenty work if we really want make the things wey we dey learn for Bible continue to change us.		We must exert ourselves if we are to allow God 's Word to continue changing us.
We go use our own sense take handle the problem?		Do we resort to human thinking by trying to solve them in our own way?
We learn many better things when we first start to study with Witness people.		We discovered some priceless truths when we first began to associate with God 's people.
We no know sey we go quick train our pikin like this.		This project of raising our daughters went by much faster than we could have imagined.
Wetin Jesus talk for Luke 21: 36 wey go help us ' no sleep '?		According to Luke 21: 36, how did Jesus instruct us to " keep awake "?
Wetin fit make us ask: ' Which time '?		What can cause us to ask: " How long "?
Wetin go come remain?		They will be replaced by what?
Wetin go help you make your mind no judge you?		How can you overcome feelings of guilt about displeasing your relatives?
Wetin papa and mama go do to teach their pikin wey dey 13 to 19 years to serve?		What important things can parents do to train their teenagers to serve?
Wetin show sey to teach person and to punish am na part of correction?		How may discipline include both teaching and punishment?
Which kind character fit make person get strong head?		What traits could harden our heart?
Which kind freedom human being get, and why?		What is relative freedom?
Why e good make we talk about how to dey pity people?		Why should the topic of compassion interest you?
With this one dem show sey na the kind character wey God get dem like pass. And to do the correct thing na one of dem. - Prov.		They thus demonstrate that they value God 's superlative qualities, including honesty, more than anything material. - Prov.
You go get sense wey God dey give, and you no go copy the people for this world. - Prov.		And you will act with insight and wisdom in today 's ungodly world. - Prov.
Make God give all of una the mind to dey think like Jesus. ' - ROM.		May [ God ] grant you to have among yourselves the same mental attitude that Christ Jesus had. " - ROM.
Jesus know sey na go pay dem for wetin dem do. ( Rom.		Christians are likewise admonished to be humble and not to " pay back injury for injury. " - 1 Pet.
So as you dey read Bible and our book dem, no rush.		So as you study God 's Word and our Christian publications, do not just skim over the material.
We need to believe sey the advice wey dey give us for Bible fit help us.		We also need faith in 's Word and in his way of doing things, trusting God 's inspired counsel.
Wetin go help us get strong faith and continue to dey near?		How can we cultivate spirituality and keep growing as a spiritual person?
hand dey all this city wey dem choose. So, we fit ask ourself: How this city wey arrange help us know how e dey pity person reach?		Since was directly involved in setting these cities apart for special use, we might ask: How does this arrangement help us to have a clearer view of 's mercy?
If una dey do this one, una go sabi many things, una go love more and una go fit teach una pikin well. - Luke 6: 40.		Your doing so will broaden your knowledge, deepen your appreciation for, and better equip you to teach your young ones. - Luke 6: 40.
Wetin be the change wey one husband and wife make for their marriage?		What adjustments did one married couple need to make?
How we de produce new seed?		How do we produce new Kingdom seed?
Question From People Wey Dey Read Our Book		Questions From Readers
But Paul come talk sey we still get ' the promise to enter God rest. ' ( Heb.		However, Paul added that there was still " a promise of entering into [ God 's ] rest. "
How we go take support Governing Body?		How do we cooperate with the Governing Body?
Wetin make we fit nack hand for chest sey na Witness people dey preach about God Kingdom today?		Why can we be certain that 's are the ones who are preaching the good news of the Kingdom today?
Wetin David tell Solomon?		What assurance did David provide Solomon?
Na Love Dey Make God Correct Us		Discipline - Evidence of God 's Love
Wetin the elders go do if person kill another person by mistake?		Describe the role of the elders in judging an unintentional manslayer.
So dey live simple life.		So live modestly.
After Paul don talk about different different people wey get faith, e come talk about the one wey get faith pass all of dem - our Lord Jesus Christ.		After describing various men and women of faith, Paul highlighted the most outstanding example of all - our Lord Jesus Christ.
And as time dey go, I come still dey interpret other talk.		Thus, I had picked up enough English to interpret that talk and others on later occasions.
And e don help me fit manage the problem wey I dey face everyday. " One brother for Brazil wey don marry for 23 years talk sey e dey enjoy im marriage well well. Wetin help im and im wife?		A brother in Brazil states, " Our 23 years of marriage have been very happy - thanks to our efforts to be spiritually - minded. "
And make you dey follow advice for everything wey you plan to do.		Keep yourself focused on theocratic goals, including in all your plans.
Another person wey fear na Nicodemus. Im too na member for Sanhedrin. - John 3: 1 - 10; 7: 50 - 52.		Another individual in the same situation was Nicodemus, also a member of the Sanhedrin. - John 3: 1 - 10; 7: 50 - 52.
Another thing be sey Bible no support am.		And in a sense, doing so is unscriptural.
Because the people no want support Rehoboam again, e gather army say e want go fight them.		In response to the revolt, Rehoboam mustered his army.
Bible advise us sey: ' Make una dey check whether una still dey for the faith; dey show the kind person wey una be. '		Keep testing whether you are in the faith; keep proving what you yourselves are, " the Bible counsels us.
Bible tell us sey people wey no dey serve God fit dey do some kind good things. ( Rom.		God 's Word acknowledges that unbelievers may have certain commendable principles.
But, the three of us first dey one congregation wey dey use English, wey dey where dem dey call Quezon City.		However, the three of us were initially assigned to a congregation in Quezon City, where many of the residents spoke English.
But David wey be Jesse pikin, no be firstborn.		However, Jesse 's son David was not a firstborn.
But after, Zerah wey come from Ethiopia carry 1,000,000 soldier and 300 horse come fight dem.		Then Zerah the Ethiopian came against Judah with 1,000,000 men and 300 chariots.
But even though sey bad things dey happen, e no dey affect joy.		Yet, the wicked deeds of others do not rob of joy.
But when e don big small, the papa go dey tell am wetin e dey do.		When the boy is older, the father explains what he is doing.
But you think sey anything dey wey better pass diamond or other things like gold and coral for God eye?		Could it be, however, that from God 's standpoint, there are things more precious than diamonds or other gemstones?
Dem give the motor to pioneer wey fit drive am and wey fit repair am when e spoil.		The vans were manned by hardy pioneers who could handle the rough conditions and repair the vehicles when they broke down.
E get another problem wey some people dey face for marriage.		A different sort of tribulation confronts some married couples.
E just be like sey dey talk to me. Like sey e dey tell me sey: ' Vicky, abeg come, make we settle the matter wey we get.		I felt as if were speaking to me, saying: ' Come on, Vicky, let 's set matters straight between us.
E no tey, Paul and Barnabas come dey do missionary work together. - Acts 13: 2, 3.		Soon, those two men began serving together as missionaries. - Acts 13: 2, 3.
E really know and this one make am do wetin God like.		He truly knew, and he acted on that knowledge.
E still show sey e don ready to serve God with all im power and everything wey e get. ( Rom.		When presenting themselves for baptism, such new disciples confirm that they have disowned themselves and are determined to serve God with all their strength, means, and abilities.
E want even burn incense for temple - work wey only priest dey do.		He even attempted to burn incense at the temple - a privilege reserved for the Aaronic priests.
Ephesians 5: 17 talk sey: ' Always dey try know wetin want. '		Ephesians 5: 17 states: " Keep perceiving what the will of is. "
For 1382, John Wycliffe and some people translate Bible go English.		In 1382, the English translation later known as the Wycliffe Bible was produced.
For 1986, Wendy come travel go one country wey dem dey call Vanuatu.		Working alongside her fueled my desire to move abroad. "
For Hebrew language, asher na the first word for verse 12. Na this word connect verse 12 - 15 with other verse before am. Wetin this word mean go help person understand this place for Bible.		The connection between Psalm 144: 12 - 15 and the preceding verses hangs on the meaning given to the first word in verse 12, which is the Hebrew term asher.
For all the resurrection wey dey Bible, na Jesus own important pass.		The most important one, of course, is that of Jesus.
For am to work, we go get the character wey holy spirit dey help person get.		Of course, the Bible provides other practical suggestions.
For example, make we talk about the power wey e give only our sun.		Consider, for example, the amount of energy that he supplies just to our sun.
For the vision, dem tell Paul sey: ' Come Macedonia come help us. '		Paul was told: " Step over into Macedonia. "
For there, three town near each other and they get 50 congregation and their publishers pass 5,400.		Among just three neighboring towns in that area, there are 50 congregations and over 5,400 publishers.
How brothers and sisters for World War I take get wetin help dem continue to get strong faith?		How were the spiritual needs of the brothers met during the first world war?
How other people for congregation fit join hand to help young ones?		What are some ways that others in the congregation can encourage young ones?
How your mind dey do you if you see the person?		Are you happy to fellowship with them?
If husband and wife no quick settle problem wey dey their marriage, one or the two of dem fit want go stay im own or end the marriage.		Serious problems that persist in marriage may lead one mate or both mates to consider separation or divorce.
If you do this one, you go near more more.		Then you will draw ever closer to your heavenly Father.
dey see and e sabi all the people wey dey serve am well, even if dem be young people. - Ps.		notices and values the integrity of all his faithful worshippers, including those who are relatively young. - Ps.
Jesus prayer make us know wetin get for mind for people wey obey am.		s purpose for obedient mankind is reflected in the petitions found in Jesus ' model prayer.
Like Jesus, when you see people wey need help, you dey pity dem and ready to help dem?		Are we like Jesus, ever ready to show compassionate concern when we meet people who need help?
Make we come talk about some things for Bible wey go help us sabi ' the better thing wey God want, things wey e like and wey correct ' when we dey choose wetin we go wear. - Rom.		Let us consider some Bible principles that can help us determine " the good and acceptable and perfect will of God " when we are deciding what to wear. - Rom.
Many people wey dey quick vex and wey like trouble before dey happy today, because dem don use cool temper cover body like cloth.		By clothing themselves with mildness, many individuals who were once aggressive are now happy.
Many science people talk sey this IUD dey make man sperm no reach where the woman egg dey.		Many specialists said that inert IUDs caused a reaction in the uterus that interfered with sperm reaching and fertilizing a woman 's eggs.
Many times for our book we dey use Hebrews 4: 12 take show sey Bible get power to change people life.		Hebrews 4: 12 is often cited in our publications to show that the Bible has power to change lives, and it is perfectly proper to make that application.
Many young people wey dey around 20 years never baptize, even though sey dem born dem inside organization.		Some circuit overseers have expressed concern because they meet young ones in their late teens and early 20 ' s who have grown up in Christian households but who have yet to get baptized.
Mountain wey dem dey call Teskey Ala - Too		Teskey Ala - Too mountain range
Na 1998 government give us free hand to do our work for Kyrgyzstan.		Indeed, in 1998 the work of the was granted legal recognition in Kyrgyzstan.
Na so Israel people enter the work, and dem ' happy well well sey dem take their mind give this things, because na all their mind dem take give this things. ' - 1 Chron.		The Israelites sprang into action. Indeed, they " rejoiced over making. voluntary offerings, for they made the voluntary offerings to with a complete heart. " - 1 Chron.
No be deceive e deceive people?		Or was he being deceptive?
Noah do the work wey God give am, e no play with am at all.		Noah faithfully fulfilled the work assignment that had given him.
One Sunday for church, the priest come vex, shout sey, " Una see this book! "		One Sunday in church, the priest angrily shouted, " Look at this book! "
One day, we go do the last Memorial.		One day the Memorial will be observed for the last time.
One papa talk sey: " No take your pikin question play, or take am as small pikin talk, and no run from any question wey your pikin ask you because you no too like the question. "		Take your child 's questions seriously, " said one father.
One way wey we take dey show sey we value Jesus sacrifice, na when we tell for prayer sey we don ready to use our life serve am. After that one, we go come baptize.		One important way in which we show gratitude for the ransom is by dedicating ourselves to on the basis of our faith in the ransom and getting baptized.
People de look us when we de preach.		Householders and passersby observe our behavior.
So, e fit hard well well to find better skirt, gown, blouse, suit or trouser wey no tight.		Many stores cater to popular fashions, so it may take more time and effort to find modest skirts, dresses, and blouses or suits and slacks that are not too tight.
So, e give everybody for im organization work. Even if all of us no dey do the same work, like wetin we dey do.		Everyone 's role in the congregation is unique, but all of us are needed.
So wetin we don talk? The new way wey dem take translate Psalm 144 no change the way we understand wetin Bible talk.		In conclusion, the adjusted wording in Psalm 144 does not change our understanding of Bible teachings.
Some children wey don baptize fit later talk sey dem no sure sey na to follow wetin talk better pass.		Perhaps you have seen some youths get baptized but later question the wisdom of living by God 's standards.
Sometimes, even if husband and wife dey happy sey the wife don get belle, small fear fit still dey.		New anxieties often surface after a wife announces to her husband, " We are going to have a baby. "
The Watchtower talk sey truth be like flower wey plenty grass cover.		If you would find it you must be ever on the lookout.
The language go help you near more more if you join the congregation?		Would moving to such a congregation help you draw closer to?
This Bible book wey dem translate go Greek language, na im people come dey call Greek Septuagint.		The resulting collection of Bible books came to be known as the Greek Septuagint.
This one make dem no stop to preach about Jesus, when the Sadducees sey make dem stop. - Acts 5: 17, 18, 27 - 29.		When opposed by the Sadducees, the apostles would not stop teaching on the basis of Jesus ' name. - Acts 5: 17, 18, 27 - 29.
To go preach for country wey dem need more publisher, na one good thing wey I don do! "		To go and serve where the need is greater has been one of the better decisions I have ever made!
Today, we still believe sey day don near. That day " no go easy and fear go dey well well. "		Today, we have every reason to believe that the " great and very awe - inspiring " day of is near.
We don always de wake up early before, and this one help us for Bethel.		We have always been early risers, and that habit certainly helps at Bethel.
Wetin e good make papa and mama dey do when dem dey train their pikin and correct dem?		The same basic principles apply in the family.
Wetin this kind thinking fit cause?		Or what if we are not part of the primary audience for a certain publication?
Wetin we fit do make our conscience de direct us for the right way?		How can we prevent our conscience from becoming ineffective?
Wetin we fit do to get better voice when we dey sing?		What are some suggestions for improving our singing?
Wetin we fit learn from the truth about this matter?		What do the facts indicate?
Wetin we learn from David example?		What lessons can we learn from accounts concerning King David?
When Jesus see all this one, e pain am well well! Jesus talk sey dem no dey fail to pay tithe for some small small plant wey dem dey call ' mint ' ' dill ' and ' cumin. '		They meticulously obeyed some of its smallest details, for Jesus acknowledged: " You give the tenth of the mint and the dill and the cumin. "
When Jesus start to preach, e show sey e really understand how people dey feel, and e sorry for dem.		When Jesus embarked on his ministry, it was with a remarkable depth of insight and fellow feeling.
When the war end, we come dey feel sey both government and church don fail us.		By war 's end, it seemed that both the church and the government had failed us.
Which people we suppose praise and respect well well, and why?		Those related to us in the faith certainly merit honor and respect.
Why? Joseph think about wetin go happen if e do am.		No doubt, he took the time to consider what the consequences would be if he were to lower his guard.
Why e fit surprise person sey people dey plenty?		Why is the increase of 's people noteworthy?
Why e good make we plan wetin we go do before quarrel start?		How can we plan ahead for situations that might lead to conflict?
You think sey this one make faith better pass other character wey Christian suppose get?		Does this mean that faith is the most important Christian quality?
Your brothers and sisters for congregation love una and dem go support una. When una put everything wey una want do for hand, una plan go get head.		They have the loving support of their brothers and sisters, and when they commit themselves to, their plans in life will succeed.
Our friend don go sleep, but I want travel go there, go wake am. " - JOHN 11: 11.		Our friend has fallen asleep, but I am traveling there to awaken him. " - JOHN 11: 11.
Continue to dey put your mind for how you dey read for where people dey, how you dey give advice, how you dey teach. ' - 1 TIM.		Continue applying yourself to public reading, to exhortation, to teaching. " - 1 TIM.
Dem no stop to dey use all their time take. dey gather together. ' - ACTS 2: 42.		They continued devoting themselves. to associating together. " - ACTS 2: 42.
Make una be people wey like peace. ' - MARK 9: 50.		Keep peace with one another. " - MARK 9: 50.
Why dem need to choose another person and why support dem?		Why was this selection so important to them and to?
Because Joseph no leave, bless am with better thing. E come fit save Israel and Egypt people make hunger no kill dem.		Because Joseph remained loyal to God, he was rewarded with blessings that resulted in the preservation of life both for the Israelites and for the Egyptians.
We go talk about three example wey show sey want and still ready to give im people the power to do wetin e want, even when dem get problem wey be like sey e pass their power.		We will discuss three outstanding Bible examples that show 's desire and ability to strengthen his people to do his will despite seemingly overwhelming difficulties.
Many people don choose sey dem no go marry so that dem fit put all their mind for work.		Many have chosen to remain single in order to serve with an undivided mind.
[CONTENT_REMOVED]		See also the box " God 's Word Strengthened Their Conviction. " )
For the night before Jesus die, wetin e tell the disciples?		Shortly before his death, what information did Jesus share with his disciples?
Maybe you no like the way your papa and mama take dey correct you.		But perhaps it is the way your parents discipline you that upsets you.
To Serve Fit Cause Katakata for Family		The Truth Brings, " Not Peace, But a Sword "
Get faith sey Jesus sacrifice go make forgive your sin.		Have faith that the ransom is the basis for forgiving your sins.
How we fit do wetin David tell Solomon, even with the sin wey dey our body?		How can we as imperfect humans do so?
Check paragraph 13 )		See paragraph 13 )
But, dem come change.		Then they changed.
Pet. 3: 8 ) Because of that one our brothers and sisters that time, come dey try well well for preaching.		In fact, Paul could say that the good news " was preached in all creation under heaven. "
After one thousand years don pass wey David write Psalm 16: 10, Peter come explain who that verse dey talk about.		When did Peter comment on Psalm 16: 10? We are not left in the dark.
After some years, because the brother dey patient, im wife come baptize as Witness.		Years later, his patience was rewarded when his wife was baptized as one of 's.
And e fit be sey the number of galaxy wey dey ( plenty star wey dey together ), even plenty pass the stars wey dey Milky Way galaxy ( trillions )!		And there may be trillions of galaxies in the universe!
And e good make we learn from our mistake, continue to dey serve, and get strong mind sey tomorrow go better. - Heb.		Thereafter, we do well to learn from our mistakes, move forward in our service to, and look to the future with confidence. - Heb.
And e promise sey e go pay us back for wetin we do.		And he promises to reward that kindness.
And many of this things don dey Bible.		Many of those were set out in the holy writings.
And na wetin all of us want be that. So wetin we go do?		All of us desire to be made strong by and to remain firm in our worship.
Anytime some things wey we understand change, wetin we suppose do?		What do we need to do when we receive an adjusted understanding of a truth?
Brother Henschel don work with Brother Knorr for many years.		Brother Henschel informed me that my foremost responsibility at Bethel would now be to help Brother Franz in any way needed.
But, Joseph no let anything stop am. E don ready imself for anything wey go happen. Wetin dey im mind na make e bury Jesus well and to let people know sey im na Jesus disciple.		Yet, at this point, he was willing to accept the consequences of giving Jesus a dignified burial and of openly identifying himself as one of Christ 's disciples.
But as e be sey we never enter that paradise now, e good to remember wetin want make we do when person do or talk wetin vex us.		However, since we are not yet in the new world, we should consider God 's thoughts on how to handle matters when others say or do things that hurt our feelings.
But make we no forget, whether person believe sey na God make everything or life start by imself, person still need faith to believe am.		But it is good for us to keep this in mind: No matter what someone believes about God or about evolution, some type of faith is involved.
But sisters dey come meet me, hold me join body and tell me sey I fine well well.		But then sisters approach me, give me a hug, and say I look pretty.
But you like to dey sing with brothers and sisters for meeting?		How, though, do you feel about singing aloud with the congregation?
Cool temper fit even make person wey hate us change im character.		It can even soften the attitude of a person who is hostile.
Dem dey even hide bring Watchtower come for us. We dey use hand copy am so that we fit use am for our study.		We even regularly received smuggled copies of The Watchtower, which we copied by hand to use in our studies.
Disciple na person wey learn and understand the things wey Jesus teach. And e go still ready to follow dem.		A disciple is one who learns and understands Jesus ' teachings and who is determined to observe them.
E come start to go meeting with Bronx Congregation. For 1940, my mama come baptize.		She began attending meetings with the Bronx Congregation and got baptized in 1940.
E hear sey new missionary don come, so e come welcome us.		She had come to welcome the new missionaries.
E know sey God no want mek person dey vex anyhow and God no like " do me I do you ". E still know sey God want mek Im people get love for theirself.		He knew exactly how felt about anger and revenge and how God wants His people to love one another.
E trust finish, and e ready to go anywhere wey want make e go.		He trusted in completely and was prepared to see his assignment through, wherever would allow it to take him.
Even if people wey dey lead for religion want make we dey praise dem, we no go do am. Why?		However, 's refrain from treating religious leaders as ones who merit extraordinary honor, even though those leaders may expect it.
Even some people for congregation don put hand for this kind thing. And that one don spoil the better name wey dem get for congregation. - 1 Tim.		Even some Christians have made poor decisions in this area and for ' dishonest material gain ' have lost their good standing in the congregation. - 1 Tim.
Even though dem small, dem dey ask us sey " Wetin I go do when I don grow? "		Though young, they asked such questions as " What will I do when I grow up? "
For 1896, e come write sey: ' We no want make anybody dey praise us at all or praise wetin we write. We no want make people dey call us big name like, Reverend or Rabbi.		In 1896, he wrote: " We want no homage, no reverence, for ourselves or our writings; nor do we wish to be called Reverend or Rabbi.
For the two topic, we go learn three things wey really show sey na use this people lead. This one go help us see sey never stop to lead im people today. - Isa.		Both articles will consider three lines of evidence that has indeed been behind those men, proving that he was - and still is - the true Leader of his people. - Isa.
For this last days, e hard to dey do the correct thing because many people dey think of only theirself, and dem like money well well. ( 2 Tim.		Admittedly, it is difficult to be honest in these last days when many are " lovers of themselves, lovers of money. "
How 1 Corinthians 10: 31 and Philippians 2: 4 take concern how we go dress?		How do 1 Corinthians 10: 31 and Philippians 2: 4 have a bearing on what we wear?
How take show sey e dey control imself?		What are some noteworthy instances when displayed self - control?
I get one notebook wey I dey write Bible verse and some things from our book dem, and I dey read am every time to help me make I no worry too much.		For my own encouragement, I keep a notebook with scriptures and thoughts from our publications that I can consult from time to time.
I go miss meeting and preaching because of my business?		Would I decide to miss meetings or field service so as to increase my income?
Im na oga of people wey dey collect tax. E get money well well because e use wayo collect people money.		Zacchaeus was a chief tax collector who had become rich by extorting money.
Witness for camp put body for work, so that dem no go follow people do this bad things. ( Heb.		To resist the bad influences, in the camps needed to stay fully involved in congregation activities.
dey answer our prayer even as we no reach to get answer from am. Sometimes, e dey use our brothers and sisters take help us ' so that we fit get strong mind talk sey: " Na dey help me; I no go fear.		Undeserving as we are, he answers our call, often through fellow Christians, " so that we may be of good courage and say: ' is my helper; I will not be afraid.
Jesus tell e disciples say: " Na this one go make everybody know say wuna be my disciples, if wuna love wunaself. "		Jesus told his disciples: " By this all will know that you are my disciples - if you have love among yourselves. "
MANY doctor and nurse dey treat people wey get sickness wey fit catch another person.		MANY health - care professionals work among those infected with contagious diseases.
Make we see four reason why we talk like that.		Let us consider four reasons why we may draw that conclusion.
Many people today don see sey dey really pity for people.		Many experiences could be used to illustrate God 's acts of compassion.
Maureen start missionary work for 1979, and e pass 30 years wey e do the work for West Africa.		Starting in 1979, Maureen served for over 30 years as a missionary in West Africa.
Me and my wife pray about the matter, we still talk about the matter with our mama dem wey don old, to hear wetin dem go talk.		Bethel and I prayed about it and discussed the matter with our aged mothers to get their advice.
Na so e still be for apostle Paul time. People wey God choose to rule with Jesus that time, dey do bad things before.		Such experiences remind us of our first - century brothers and sisters, who had the heavenly hope.
Na that time e tell them the example of the vine wey we learn about for the first topic. Why Jesus tell them that example?		Also, he related to them an illustration about a vine, as we considered in the preceding article.
Na this one make the elders tell Paul sey make e go do something for the temple to show sey the rumor na lie, even though sey no be wetin e must do. - Acts 21: 18 - 27.		Hence, the congregation elders advised Paul to prove these rumors wrong by his going to the temple and doing something that God did not require of him but that was not objectionable. - Acts 21: 18 - 27.
Na wetin make King Solomon write sey: ' No good person wey dey this world wey dey do good every time wey no dey sin. '		Thus, wise King Solomon wrote: " There is no righteous man on earth who always does good and never sins. "
Na your hand e dey to think this matter well.		Each person should think the matter through.
No wonder e dey like to teach people about im Father.		Jesus enjoyed teaching people about his heavenly Father.
One day, John papa send John make e carry one envelope go give one brother for im congregation.		One day, John 's father asked John to deliver an envelope to a friend in the congregation.
People wey dey serve God go dey different. - Read Malachi 3: 18.		Christians have far different traits. - Read Malachi 3: 18.
People wey dey serve no suppose praise human being like that.		True Christians refrain from such a distorted view of honoring humans.
SONG: 111, 109		SONGS: 111, 109
Show sey you love am ( Check paragraph 10 )		Show love for ( See paragraph 10 )
So, for the last time wey Jesus chop together with the apostles, e send them go carry sword. E do so because e know wetin Caiaphas plan.		Jesus was aware of this shameful strategy, so during his final meal with the apostles, he asked them to get some swords.
So Timothy believe the truth well well because e come dey sure sey wetin e learn correct.		Put another way, his knowledge was reinforced with conviction.
Some children fit learn about with the language wey dem dey speak for school and the one wey una dey speak for house.		Some children may need to learn about in two languages - their school language and the language that is spoken at home.
Some things wey we want do fit make credit full our neck.		Some decisions could keep us in financial bondage for years.
Sometimes, e fit be sey we talk wetin we no suppose talk, do bad thing wey our body want make we do, or we dey put eye for wetin other people get. When e happen like that, e dey pain us and we dey regret am.		Oh, how we regret that slip of the tongue, those fleshly tendencies that flare up every now and then, or those inclinations to envy what others have!
The bad things wey people dey do for there come stop.		He was " setting a pattern for ungodly people of things to come. "
The brother talk sey: ' When we newly pack come, my wife tell me sey all im friend dey our former congregation! '		He relates: " After our last move, my wife said, ' All my friends are in our previous congregation! ' "
The people really want hear the good news. After two years, I go Gilead School too.		Two years later, I myself was able to attend Gilead School; I returned to Pakistan as a part - time circuit overseer.
The things wey I plan to do go help me " make peace with everybody "?		Will my decisions help me to " be peaceable "?
The things wey I plan to do go make me use my life do work?		Will my decisions help me to set spiritual goals?
They need to hear the good news. "		They need a chance to hear the good news. "
This my neighbor na still Witness.		She too was one of 's.
This na because e go make us no too worry about the things wey we need.		By doing so, we need never be anxious about our material needs.
This na the first time wey dem use radio take preach the good news for Mexico.		For the first time, Mexican radio stations carried the good news throughout the country.
This one make am near well well. And to pioneer come dey hungry am pass before.		This, along with prayer, built him up and strengthened him spiritually.
This one na better example.		I viewed her as a fine example of submission to theocratic headship.
This one sweet the manager of the stadium, sotey e no collect money from the brothers.		The director was so impressed that he allowed us to use the facilities without cost.
Una wey be wife, make una dey support una husband as Priscilla take support Aquila im husband, even as things change for dem. - Acts 18: 2.		And you wives, imitate Aquila 's wife, Priscilla, who accompanied and supported Aquila faithfully as their circumstances changed. - Acts 18: 2.
We come use newspaper take block the space. Na well water we dey use.		We also had to collect water from a well.
We no come dey quarrel again. '		We have not had any more problems. "
We no de fear when we de do good things as we de serve, just because Satan fit see us.		We are not afraid to do good works in 's service just because the Devil might see us.
Wetin be some things wey fit help person know sey e don dey overdo?		What are some warning signs of immodest thinking or behavior?
Wetin make Abraham dey sure sey go always judge well?		Why could Abraham express confidence that would always render a righteous judgment?
Wetin we go tell dem?		What points about the ransom could we highlight?
When we reach Puerto Rico I see one fine sister wey be missionary and I come love am. Im name na Maxine Boyd.		When we arrived, I met and fell in love with Maxine Boyd, a beautiful missionary sister.
Who people dey support as King?		Where do 's people stand regarding his sovereignty?
Why people wey don dey old need to train young men?		Why is there a need for older ones to train younger ones?
Why we fit talk so?		Why can we draw that conclusion?
You ready to take wetin other people dey talk? Dem know you as person wey dey do everything to make sure sey peace dey? - Jas.		Do we find it difficult to yield, or are we known as those who are " making peace "? - Jas.
Your new field service group overseer go waka with you for preaching as you just come the congregation.		Your new field service group overseer should endeavor to share with you in the ministry soon after your arrival.
[CONTENT_REMOVED]		See paragraphs 13 - 17 )
Some example for Bible show sey when we do this things, we go happy and go bless us.		These sacrifices bring both joy and blessings, as the following examples show.
True true, God no go help anybody save im property for that town wey dem want destroy.		God certainly was not going to preserve anyone 's material possessions in a city that was going to be destroyed.
Satan don change since e talk this thing?		Has Satan changed since he made that claim?
The next day, e fit be say the people no too serious again about wetin they want do before.		The following day on the other side of the Sea of Galilee, the enthusiasm may have died down some.
E give King David im spirit make e write sey: ' E get the time wey I young and now I don old, but I never see where God leave person wey dey serve am, or sey im pikin come dey beg for food. ' - Ps.		He inspired King David to give this assurance: " I was once young and now I am old, but I have not seen anyone righteous abandoned, nor his children looking for bread. " - Ps.
But, no be im dey put the food for their mouth!		Of course, he does not put the food in their beaks!
Matt. 6: 3, 4 ) So, when we dey use free mind dey help people wey get problem, dey see the good wey we do as if we dey borrow am something.		Hence, when we unselfishly help those who are in difficulty, views our good deed as a loan made to Him.
Many of this people na overseer for congregation, but after, dem come dey call dem " bishop. "		Many of these men had responsible positions in the congregations, serving as overseers and later as " bishops. "
Na this kind people go get the mark wey go save dem for great tribulation.		Those who do these things will receive the mark of survival during the coming great tribulation.
Acts 4: 24 ) For one vision, wey dey Revelation 4: 11, the 144,000 wey go follow Jesus rule for heaven talk sey: ' our God, na only you reach to get all the power, praise and respect because na you make everything. Everything dey, because you want am like that. '		At Revelation 4: 11, Christ 's 144,000 heavenly corulers are depicted in a vision, saying: " You are worthy, our God, to receive the glory and the honor and the power, because you created all things, and because of your will they came into existence and were created. "
Dem Use Their Mind Do the Work		They Offered Themselves Willingly
Paul talk sey: ' If I no get love, I no be anything. ' ( 1 Cor.		If I. do not have love, " wrote Paul, " I am nothing. "
After don save Israel people from Egypt, e give dem different different law. This law help dem know sey dem suppose treat stranger wey don join dem to serve well. ( Ex.		After delivered his people from Egypt, he gave them a set of laws that showed special consideration for the many non - Israelites who had joined them.
After Jesus give about 5,000 men food, e notice how the people surprise.		After Jesus fed about 5,000 men, he sensed the mood among the people.
And, why e good make we try do wetin we promise?		Also, how determined should we be to keep our vows?
And make una mind continue to dey change to better one, and make una wear the new character wey God make the way e want, wey go show for the way una take dey live better and holy life. '		And you should continue to be made new in your dominant mental attitude, and should put on the new personality that was created according to God 's will in true righteousness and loyalty. "
And make we no think sey we understand everything about the matter because we fit no correct finish.		We are keenly aware that the fault may lie in our imperfect view of matters.
Angela Romano na one young sister wey still join us for this work.		Angela Romano was one of the young sisters who came to help with the canning.
As Thomas Mclain Take Talk Am		As told by Thomas McLain
As people wey write Bible talk true, how e fit make us get strong faith for Bible?		How does the honesty of Bible writers strengthen our faith in their writings?
Ask yourself question.		Ask questions.
Because e dey vex, e no come trust Euodia again.		Feeling betrayed, Syntyche began to look at Euodia with doubt and even suspicion.
Bible talk about ' God favor wey be free gift. ' ( Eph.		The Scriptures speak of " the free gift of God 's undeserved kindness. "
But for this world own, wey judge am no dey make mistake or do partial. ( Deut.		In the case of this world, though, the sentence has been determined by the perfectly just Sovereign of the universe.
But how we go take get this kind better sense and keep am?		Now the question is, How can we gain and safeguard this valuable quality of practical wisdom?
But that one no mean sey no let am suffer for the bad thing wey e do.		Still, he had to reap the consequences of his unwise course.
Dem take all their mind trust the Person wey don promise dem for Bible sey: ' I no go ever leave una, and I no go ever forget una. '		They have put implicit trust in the One who had this promise recorded in his Word: " I will never leave you, and I will never abandon you. "
Dem talk sey e go make us no too dey sick or get katakata with people. When we do wetin we fit do to help people wey dey wahala, e dey make us happy.		When you relieve the suffering of others, you will feel happier, more optimistic, less lonely, and less inclined to think negative thoughts.
Dem tear their cloth, and dem use cane flog dem well well.		Their clothes were torn off them, and they were severely beaten with rods.
E be like sey na im family people tell am about.		He no doubt learned much from his relatives.
E don pass 60 years wey John cut im hand, but the mark still dey till today.		Today, John still has a scar on the forefinger of his right hand where he cut himself some 60 years ago.
E get another thing for Bible wey dey important wey go fit help us choose better cloth to wear.		There is another important principle that helps us to select appropriate clothing.
E no tey, e come dey hungry Riana to go area wey dem need more publishers to preach.		Before long, Riana wanted to serve where the need for workers was greater.
E sey make we use our freedom " like person wey be God slave. "		He urged us to use our freedom " as slaves of God. "
E talk sey: " We know wetin we do.		He recalled: " We were quite confident about this.
E talk sey: ' E no matter whether person na Greek or na Jew, whether e don circumcise or e never circumcise, whether na stranger, or Scythian, whether na slave, or na free person; but Jesus Christ na everything to everybody. '		He stated: " There is neither Greek nor Jew, circumcision nor uncircumcision, foreigner, Scythian, slave, or freeman. "
Even after some of dem don learn the truth wey dey Bible, dem still make serious mistake.		Even after accepting the truth, some had to overcome serious spiritual problems.
Everybody wey repent with all their mind go join family. Satan no fit do anything to stop dem.		There is nothing that the Devil can do to prevent all who genuinely repent from eventually becoming part of 's family.
FOR Bible, the word wey dem use for " correction " no only mean punishment.		WHEN you hear the word " discipline, " what comes to mind?
For example, e dey make husband and wife respect each other, e no dey make dem eye another man or woman, their children dey get respect, and e dey make everybody for family love each other.		True worship teaches us to honor and respect our spouse, to treat marriage vows as sacred, to avoid adultery, to raise respectful children, and to practice true love.
For one convention wey dem do for 2006, Daniel hear one talk wey really touch am. For the talk, dem talk why servant suppose help people come serve before Armageddon. ( Prov.		At a convention in 2006, Daniel was deeply touched by a talk that raised the question: " Are we doing all we can to help those who are ' staggering to the slaughter ' to get on the road to everlasting life? "
How Jesus take show sey e sabi encourage people?		How did Jesus show himself to be encouraging?
How papa and mama go take show sey dem want make their pikin get faith?		How can parents show that they do not take their child 's faith for granted?
How the Law wey give Israel people fit help us when we dey choose how to dress?		How does the Mosaic Law help us when we have to make decisions about dress and grooming?
How we go take treat stranger well?		How can we show kindness to strangers?
I love the thing wey I de learn from Bible, and I like to tell other people about - am.		I was full of zeal for Bible truth and loved sharing it with others.
If fake religion start to control correct Christians after the apostles don die, na which time God save im people?		Finally, if Christians went into bondage to false religion from the second century C.E. onward, when did they get freed?
If na before that time, dem for enter trouble.		Without fear of reprisals in such countries, citizens were free to discuss religious matters and to disagree openly with the established churches.
If we do wetin Bible talk, the better thing wey we go get no go end. Paul write about am, e sey: ' Wetin sin dey pay na death, but God use Jesus Christ, our Lord, take give us life wey no go end for free. ' - Rom.		The reward of doing so will be everlasting, for Paul wrote: " The wages sin pays is death, but the gift God gives is everlasting life by Christ Jesus our Lord. " - Rom.
If you be young person wey don baptize or you get am for mind to baptize, wetin you fit do to near?		Baptized young ones and those who are contemplating baptism, how can you strengthen your relationship with?
Im wife name na Lottie. For 1952, the four of us go one convention for the place wey dem dey call Belfast. We stay for one brother house.		My brother and his wife, Lottie, were already serving as special pioneers in Northern Ireland, and in 1952 the four of us attended a district convention in Belfast.
no fit just do am for us so that we go fit dey do the things wey e like?		Could not simply override our wrong inclinations to the point that we could display godly qualities with minimal effort?
Jesus disciples believe sey na choose am and dem use their mind follow am.		Jesus ' disciples followed him willingly, and they affirmed that he was 's choice.
Like Job, make we serve well even when we dey suffer. This one go show sey na side we dey.		And let us appreciate that our role in this vital issue entails remaining faithful even under difficult circumstances, as did Job.
Make we continue to dey help other people and serve God with the gift wey e don take bless us.		We can continue to cultivate our God - given abilities and expand in doing good works.
Make we dey remember this one.		What a sobering thought!
Maxine my wife, wey I love well well, come die for 2011.		My dear wife, Maxine, died in 2011.
Na work be the number one thing for Jesus life, no be enjoyment.		Yet, Jesus did not immerse himself in a life of pleasure.
Na so e still be for our time. - w17.02, pp.		These factors are true today too. - w17.02, pp.
Na so we just dey happy together sotey we come dey cry!		We were so happy that we cried!
Na wetin make us fit still dey serve, even though sey we dey make mistake.		Meanwhile, thanks to the ransom, we are permitted to worship our loving God.
Na who dey preach this good news for everywhere today, as Jesus talk? Na Witness people! Why we talk like that?		To understand how 's have fulfilled Jesus ' prophecy with regard to the scope of the preaching work, let us consider some facts.
No matter the place wey we de serve, make we know say we get " plenty work to do for the Lord. " - 1 Cor.		Without question, wherever we may serve, there is still " plenty to do in the work of the Lord. " - 1 Cor.
One person wey dey put eye for Bible matter well well talk sey: " Wetin this ' go ' mean be sey everybody wey dey talk sey im na believer must do this work, whether the place near or far. " - Matt.		With regard to this command, one Bible scholar commented: " To ' go ' is the task of each believer, whether across the street or across the ocean. " - Matt.
One reason be sey, we dey do like Jesus. Jesus ' no join the world. '		One reason is that we imitate Jesus, who was " no part of the world. "
One young person wey dey 17 years read the topic " How Can You Resist Wrong Desires? "		One teenager read the article " How Can You Resist Wrong Desires? " published in the Awake!
Paul know plenty people for the different - different congregation for Asia Minor and Europe.		Paul came to know many in congregations throughout Asia Minor and Europe.
People wey don old, people wey dey sick, people wey their family dey give dem wahala because dem dey serve God, or somebody wey im person die.		To those battling the effects of old age, health limitations, opposition from their family, loneliness, or the loss of a loved one.
Plenty people wey dey serve don really see sey this world go soon end, and dem dey live simple life so that dem go fit pioneer. This one dey make us happy. ( 1 Cor.		It is most encouraging to see that many have sensed the urgency of our times and have simplified their lives so as to share in the full - time ministry.
Small time, God go save dem from fake religion hand.		The stage was being set for a future deliverance from false religion.
So, we fit talk sey na start marriage.		Thus, marriage is of divine origin.
Still tell dem how una take dey preach for the area. Dem fit still follow us go preach.		Also explain how they might approach people with the Kingdom message in your territory.
The advice wey dem go give no be their own. ( Gal.		Rather, they humbly look to God, asking for insight and wisdom.
The brothers come dey do well for preaching, and better thing come out.		Hard work in the field began yielding fine results.
The second thing be sey, angels help the group of elders for Jerusalem.		Second, angels assisted the governing body.
The time wey Brother C.		Brother C.
This kind thing fit make us no too trust and im organization again.		Such situations can test our faith in and in his organizational arrangement.
This one come even hard more more because our mind fit deceive us to do wetin bad.		That is especially so if our treacherous heart tugs us in the opposite direction.
This two better character come from the Person wey get power pass for heaven and earth.		These beautiful qualities originate from the most powerful Person in the universe.
This two topic go talk about three things wey don help people know who God dey use do im work.		These articles will consider three lines of evidence that have always identified God 's representatives.
To support as King na serious matter wey concern everybody. Why e be like that?		Why is the vindication of 's sovereignty an important issue facing mankind?
We dey sure sey e go give us everything wey e promise. - Rom.		We are fully confident that he will give us all that he has promised. - Rom.
We don do many things for work together.		Angie and I were married in April 1958, and we have enjoyed many privileges of service together.
We happy well well sey this people dey use their freedom to serve like this. - Ps.		What a splendid result of making wise use of the freedom to serve! - Ps.
We really enjoy the time wey we spend with our brothers and sisters, and we like our preaching work!		On the other hand, we had wonderful times with the brothers, and we loved our ministry!
Wetin Jephthah promise, and wetin the promise mean?		What vow did Jephthah make, and what did this involve?
Wetin happen that day make my wife happy reach house.		My wife arrived home excited.
Wetin make Bible talk about all this quarrel?		Why does the Bible mention such conflicts?
Wetin we learn for the meeting really make us happy and e make our faith strong. "		It was a very upbuilding and faith - strengthening experience for us. "
When Brother Hughes want give excuse, Brother Rutherford give Brother Hughes strong correction.		When Brother Hughes tried to justify himself, Brother Rutherford sternly rebuked him.
When Michael hear wetin dem talk, e no know whether make e cry or make e laugh.		Milan did not know whether to laugh or to cry at this suggestion.
When dem don agree to do something, we go support am even if we no understand am well.		Even if we do not fully understand or agree with a decision, we will still want to support theocratic order.
When e reach house, e come sey make Witness come dey study Bible with am two times every week.		Upon returning home, he asked to have a Bible study twice a week.
You fit win Devil for this fight. But you go first know wetin im lie lie fit cause, and how you go take protect yourself. Some people dey lie to deceive other people.		If you are going to win the battle for your mind, you must recognize the danger that propaganda poses and protect yourself from it.
We go try settle with only the person wey we and am get the quarrel and e fit be sey no be only one time we go do am.		It may be necessary to reason with the sinner more than once.
E good make husband and wife wey dey serve God no forget wetin dem promise sey dem go love theirself and dem no go leave each other. This one go help dem use Bible settle any problem wey fit dey the marriage.		Remembering their vow to love each other and to be faithful to each other will help God - fearing marriage mates work together in harmony with 's lofty principles to resolve any problems that may arise.
How?		How does love do this?
E no get any other love wey better pass am.		He is its Source.
E need to get faith. Na this faith go help am obey God law, and stop to do the things wey e no like.		Understandably, an individual could not make a valid dedication to God while engaging in any conduct that would exclude him from the Kingdom.
We fit even start to tell other people wetin dem go do and wetin dem no go do because of who we be, the kind people wey we know or wetin we think.		Or we might be advocating strong opinions solely on the basis of our position, connections, or personal thinking.
So e good make we self dey pity for people wey never know.		We read: " the God of their forefathers kept warning them by means of his messengers, warning them again and again, because he felt compassion for his people and for his dwelling place. "
E get some of our brothers wey don dey suffer already because government for their country don make law wey no let dem serve well.		Some of our brothers have already been affected by sudden political changes in their country.
But, for the good news to reach the whole world, dem go need to arrange and direct how dem go do am.		Still, an international preaching campaign required direction and organization.
We go talk about this one well for the next topic.		This responsibility will be examined in detail in the following article.
Mek we talk about some of dem. - Check endnote.		Let us consider a few examples. - See endnote.
To help dem, make we preach to dem because na im better pass.		The best way to do so is by sharing the good news with them.
When we dey use all our mind dey read the book wey organization dey give us, we go know wetin go come out of wetin we want do, and know the better thing to do.		When we open our minds and hearts as we read the Bible and literature provided by 's organization, we get a glimpse of the long - term results of our actions and can act accordingly.
Wetin young people dey face today, and which example we fit use explain am?		What challenge confronts all young people, and how might this be illustrated?
Wetin fit happen wey fit show wetin really dey our mind?		When might ' leave us alone to put us to the test '?
Still remember sey, apostle Paul talk for Bible sey e ' dey worry about all the congregation. ' ( 2 Cor.		Recall, too, that the apostle Paul experienced " anxiety for all the congregations. "
Story About People Life - No Ever Fail Me!		Life Story - Has Never Failed Me!
Then, go come near us too and make us get true peace.		In turn, he draws close to us and blesses us with inner peace.
Make We Dey Encourage Each Other, Especially Now		Encourage One Another " All the More So "
Young People, Make Una Do Wetin Go Make Una Faith Strong		Young Ones, Strengthen Your Faith
But elders fit help the person see sey to dey vex anyhow, hate people or to carry wetin dem do am for mind, no be wetin organization support.		The elders may be able to help such individuals to see that bitterness, hatred, and the harboring of grudges are traits that have no place in God 's organization.
But na only when dem give us new work for organization we go talk sey we dey do well?		Does this always require a change of assignment though?
How you fit do wetin that Bible verse talk?		How, though, can you do that?
For April 1998, dem invite Paul and Stephany go the 105th Gilead school. When the school finish, dem come send dem go Malawi wey dey Africa.		In April 1998, Paul and Stephany were invited to the 105th class of Gilead, and afterward they were assigned to serve in Malawi, Africa.
Add Bible matter join wetin una dey talk about every day.		Include spiritual discussions in your daily activities.
After, dem fill form sey dem want join brothers and sisters wey dey build Branch Office, Assembly Hall and Kingdom Hall but dem no call dem.		Later, they applied to help with international construction projects but were not invited.
After some months, dem go don gather gold reach the one wey dem fit sell for plenty dollar.		This is called alluvial gold.
And because we de work hard to care for Daniel, e make our body really tire.		I felt that I was close to a nervous breakdown.
And e no go ' correct person with only wetin e hear. E no go do partial when e dey judge common people, ' and e go do wetin go favor better people. ( Isa.		He will judge the lowly with fairness, and with uprightness he will give reproof in behalf of the meek ones of the earth. "
And make we continue to serve the way e want.		This we will likely do if we strive to maintain a deep love for.
And make wetin you dey talk and wetin you dey do show dem sey you dey follow wetin Bible talk. - Rom.		By your words and by your example, let them know that the values found in God 's Word are also your values. - Rom.
As God no want mek Israel people dey do like Canaan people, na so e no want mek we dey do the bad things wey people dey do today.		He wants to protect us just as he wanted to protect the Israelites from such bad influences.
As e talk that one finish, dem come lose the big cloth open. Wetin dem write for the cloth na: " Advertise the King and Kingdom. "		At that moment, the cloth roll overhead gracefully unfurled, revealing the slogan: " Advertise the King and Kingdom. "
As the army for Japan begin ready to attack India, British government begin put eye for Witness more - more.		As the Japanese army advanced on India, the British authorities put increasing pressure on 's.
Bible no tell us whether Anna get any pikin.		The Bible account makes no mention of any children.
Bible still talk more things about the people wey dem go resurrect go heaven. E sey: " We want make una know the truth about people wey dey sleep for death.		The Bible adds details about the heavenly resurrection: " We do not want you to be ignorant about those who are sleeping in death.
Bible still tell us sey na im dey ' control the whole world. '		The whole world " now lies in his power.
But, Hezekiah pray to make e help am because e trust finish.		However, in prayer Hezekiah expressed full trust in 's saving power.
But, some people fit dey think: ' E mean sey e go tey well well before I go see my person wey don die?		Still, someone might wonder: ' Does that mean that I may have to wait a long time to see my loved one?
But I come ask myself sey, ' How I go take copy Jesus example as this thing happen? '		But then I asked myself, ' How can I imitate Jesus in dealing with this person? '
But bless am with pikin wey im name na Samuel. When Hannah carry Samuel go tabernacle, e talk for prayer sey: ". dey send person enter Grave, and e dey raise person up. " ( 1 Sam.		She might well have recalled what formerly barren Hannah had prayed when she brought Samuel to serve at the tabernacle: ". brings down to the Grave, and he raises up. "
But dem still change.		But they too changed.
But e get some of the book wey be sey na only some people we carry for mind write dem. E get some wey be for young people and some wey be for mama and papa.		Some material is especially designed to help young people; other material assists their parents.
But pioneer work really help me. E make me fit dey talk to different different people and that one come make me get strong mind.		But pioneering taught me to converse with all sorts of people, so my confidence grew.
But una don see where big aeroplane dey born small aeroplane?		But can airplanes lay eggs and hatch small airplanes?
But wetin we fit do so that this kind thing no go happen?		What can help us to prevent that from happening?
David for Bible wey be shepherd and king get better friend dem.		David, the shepherd and king, certainly had good friends.
David still sing sey: ' Everything wey you make go praise you, O. And your people wey hold you tight go praise you.		David also sang: " All your works will glorify you, O, and your loyal ones will praise you.
Dem born me for 1928; we be six children for our family and na me be last born.		I was born in 1928, the youngest of six children.
Dem send me go one town wey Witness no dey. The name of the town na Mistelbach.		At the time, there were no in Mistelbach, the town where I was to serve.
E fit be like trap, come even make us comot mind for things wey concern God like to dey read Bible, to dey prepare for and go meeting, and to dey preach every time.		They can ensnare us and distract us from our spiritual routine of studying the Bible, preparing for and attending meetings, and sharing regularly in the ministry.
E fit be sey e dey quick sabi something.		He may just have a quick mind.
E fit be sey some of dem wey don stop to live this kind life, still dey fight make dem no go back to that kind life.		Brothers and sisters who have given up a sexually loose lifestyle may still be fighting sinful leanings.
E get some mistake wey we no fit clean.		In some cases, we may not be able to undo our mistakes.
E no come get anything again. Wetin happen to Job pain am sotey life come tire am.		He was driven to the depths of poverty and despair.
E sey: ' Everybody go carry im own load. ' - Gal. 6: 5, ftn.		All of us should act in accord with Paul 's inspired words: " Each one will carry his own load of responsibility. " - Gal. 6: 5, ftn.
E talk sey: " For the meeting, we do Watchtower study and we sing Kingdom song.		She said: " At the meeting, we studied The Watchtower and sang Kingdom songs.
E tell us wetin dey Mary mind, and things wey happen to Mary.		Likewise, the genealogies supplied by the two Gospel writers differ.
Even when e know sey this one fit cause problem for am, e no do wetin the woman want.		He must have known that he could face severe consequences if he refused her.
Even with that one, dem no need to plant before dem see food chop.		Yet, they do not have to cultivate the ground and plant seed for food.
For Bible time, how some people wey serve God well take raise shoulder?		How have even faithful ones been overtaken by pride?
For everything wey you dey do, put for mind and e go make your way smooth.		In all your ways take notice of him, and he will make your paths straight.
For example, think about the religion dem wey dey teach people lie lie about who God be, about Bible, this earth, how our tomorrow go be and many other lie.		Think, for instance, of the religious organizations that deceive millions of people about the nature of God, the trustworthiness of the Bible, the future of the earth and mankind - and many other subjects.
For many years, we believe sey na for 1918 fake religion start to dey control people, like when the Jews be slave for Babylon.		For many years, this journal suggested that God 's modern - day servants entered into Babylonian captivity in 1918 and that they were released from Babylon in 1919.
For the second book, e talk better thing about Paul. E talk sey Paul na im brother and e love am.		Notably, in his second letter, Peter refers to Paul as " our beloved brother. "
For the second topic, we go learn wetin we go do to fit still get this character even when e hard us.		The second article teaches us how to remain modest even when we are under test.
For the talk, dem still talk sey wetin dey make person happy pass, na when e do more for work.		Daniel knew that this was true.
From Israel people example, e clear sey na we go choose wetin we go do.		The above - mentioned examples convey to us a clear lesson.
God come make Adam sleep deep sleep, e comot one of im rib, use am make woman, and e carry am give the man.		God therefore caused Adam to fall into a deep sleep, took a rib from him, built it into a woman, and brought her to the man.
Greek family dem for Athens dey learn how to sing Kingdom song		Greek families in the Athens area practice Kingdom songs during a Christian gathering
Hans and Brook come write letter give four branch office.		The couple sent letters to four branch offices.
How Brother Ionash de feel?		Did he feel that his efforts were worth it?
How e take affect how you dey use internet, and the kind friend wey you dey make? Or the things wey you take dey enjoy yourself, like wetin you dey watch or read?		How should that insight influence your priorities, use of the Internet, and choice of associates and entertainment?
I come tell am sey: " Make we wait until the woman come tell us more. "		Let 's wait until she visits to tell us the details, " I replied.
I dey happy, and na big thing for me to work with brothers and sisters wey really love, and wey no dey take work play.		It has been a joy and a privilege to work with many stalwart and loyal brothers and sisters over the years.
I dey happy sey my pikin, Yaroslav and im wife, Alyona, with Pavel and im wife, Raya, na Bethelite. Vitaly and im wife, Svetlana, dey circuit work.		I am happy that Yaroslav and his wife, Alyona, and Pavel and his wife, Raya, serve at Bethel while Vitaly and his wife, Svetlana, serve in the circuit work.
I get faith and mind wey dey make me use everything wey I get to do wetin want like Barak, Deborah, Jael, and the 10,000 men?		Like Barak, Deborah, Jael, and the 10,000 volunteers, do I have the faith and courage to use whatever is at my disposal to carry out the clear command of?
I never do that kind thing before, so other brothers use all their mind help me.		I had no experience, so others willingly helped me learn.
I no ever think sey to learn about God and wetin e go do for us fit change my life.		I never imagined that the wonderful truths about God and his purpose would transform my life.
I talk say: " We fit even start now. "		Right now if possible, " I replied.
If we de obey even if people de laugh us, e show say we get sense.		It is wise to obey God even if doing so might expose us to some ridicule.
If we dey read Bible everytime, dey pray and do wetin we learn, we dey train ourself small small. ( 1 Tim.		Through regular study, prayer, and application of what we learn, we can gradually strengthen our conscience.
If we dey think like that, we fit come dey put hand for politics and war.		If we feel that way, it may become very difficult for us to stay neutral.
If we want make people listen to the good news, which example we fit copy from Timothy?		How did Timothy set a good example in promoting Kingdom interests?
If you come see person wey want give you work, you go still tell am sey you no dey like to miss meeting?		When speaking with a prospective employer, would you still inform him that you will be attending weekday meetings regularly?
Im mama come tell am sey: " You no know sey you no suppose play ball inside house?		His mother says: " Johnny, you know that you should not play with your ball in the house!
Instead, dem put wetin God want as the number one thing for their life. ( Matt.		It shows that both of them were more concerned with 's will than with satisfying their personal desires.
Jesus come answer dem sey: ' People wey well no need doctor, na people wey dey sick need doctor.		Jesus replied: " Healthy people do not need a physician, but those who are ill do.
Jesus dey sure of wetin e talk because e know sey go do anything wey E promise. ( Isa.		The certainty of Jesus ' promise was based on 's perfect record of trustworthiness. Jesus knew that God 's promises never fail.
Jesus talk sey: " You must love your neighbor as you take love yourself. "		Jesus said: " You must love your neighbor as yourself. "
Make we talk about Sylviana, wey we first talk about for the beginning of this topic.		Consider Sylviana, mentioned in the introduction to this article.
Make we talk about two of this things.		We will consider two of them.
Make we talk about wetin happen. How Israel people and Jabin army take different?		What contrast was there between Israel 's villagers and Jabin 's army?
Na im make for 1961, we fit go do special pioneer work wey dem give us for where dem dey call Falls City, wey dey Nebraska.		As a result, in early 1961 we were in a position to accept an assignment as special pioneers in Falls City, Nebraska.
Na im make for our website, we talk sey e no bad if you use e - mail take send our book give person. And you fit still send am the place for our website ( link ) wey e go fit find something.		Therefore, as the Terms of Use indicates, you may e - mail someone an electronic copy of a publication or share a link to material found on jw.org.
Na the first time be that wey I understand wetin dem dey talk from Bible!		For the first time, I understood that what I was hearing was the truth!
Na to encourage them to " continue to produce plenty fruit. " This one mean say, make them de endure as them de preach. - John 15: 8.		By means of that illustration, Jesus encouraged his disciples to " keep bearing much fruit " - to endure in preaching the Kingdom message. - John 15: 8.
No. Joshua no fit be king because e no come from David family.		No, Joshua was not from the royal line of David and thus did not qualify to be king.
No allow anything make you fear. " - Matt.		You have nothing to fear. " - Matt.
One man wey e name na Tertullian write about - am around the year 200 C.E.		The early Christians gained a reputation of loving one another.
Or sey e never see people wey dey oppress who no come from their place?		And what about sickness and death?
Or we fit dey feel sey we no fit use our life do better thing, or better thing no fit come out from wetin we dey do for life.		Or we may be struggling with feelings of inadequacy, with unfulfilled expectations, or with personal failings.
Other Bible verse dem wey don help many people mind come down na Psalm 20: 1, 2; 31: 7; 38: 8, 9, 15; 55: 22; 121: 1, 2; Isaiah 57: 15; 66: 13; Philippians 4: 13; and 1 Peter 5: 7.		Other scriptures that many have found comforting are Psalm 20: 1, 2; 31: 7; 38: 8, 9, 15; 55: 22; 121: 1, 2; Isaiah 57: 15; 66: 13; Philippians 4: 13; and 1 Peter 5: 7.
Other country come dey join the war. Even some of the Bible Student dem come dey put hand for the war because dem never too understand wetin Bible talk about war matter.		Confronted with a raging conflict of global proportions, the Bible Students did not completely understand the principle of Christian neutrality.
Other things dey.		Not at all.
Our people fit think sey we no love dem again because we no dey do things like Christmas with dem.		They may think that we no longer love them because we do not celebrate holidays with them.
People from Ireland, Britain, and even United States don write letter give me.		I have received letters from friends in Ireland, Britain, and even the United States.
Person dey happy well well the day when e baptize.		The day of one 's baptism is a time for genuine rejoicing.
Proverbs 1: 5 talk say: " Who get sense go listen and learn more. "		Proverbs 1: 5 says: " A wise person listens and takes in more instruction. "
So, one way to ' remember the people wey dey direct us, ' na to talk about Governing Body for our prayer. ( Eph.		Therefore, one way you can " remember those who are taking the lead " is by mentioning the Governing Body in your prayers.
So na we go choose wetin we go do for this matter, and if na for family na papa go choose.		Individuals and family heads are therefore free to make decisions regarding these matters.
Some people think sey wetin dem choose no go affect anybody.		Some may feel that it does not matter what we choose to do.
That time, they no want make I comot for army.		They wanted me to make the military my career.
The elders use the example of Jesus help this husband and wife.		The elders directed the couple 's attention to Jesus ' example.
The more we de " think deep " about the laws and things for Bible wey they fit guide us, the more we go de do things with deep sense.		We can increasingly act with wisdom, insight, and understanding if we take the time to " ponder over " God 's laws and principles.
The more we dey learn about, the more we go know how e dey think and how e dey do things.		As a result, she perceives what her husband 's thoughts on such a purchase would be.
The one wey better pass be sey, e come dey love and Jesus pass before.		Most important, he feels that his love for and Jesus deepens each and every year.
The prayer go help dem know sey you trust.		They will sense your trust in.
The truth be sey, for Hebrew language, ' to judge well ' and to ' do the correct thing ' mean the same thing.		In fact, the Hebrew words rendered " justice " and " righteousness " often appear together in the Hebrew Scriptures.
The truth be sey, to train other people dey make person happy. - Acts 20: 35.		However, there is joy in training others. - Acts 20: 35.
The way Felisa take dey happy about wetin e learn come mek me dey feel sey e don dey craze.		She was so excited about what she believed that I thought she was crazy.
This na one of the better thing wey don do for us. Because Jesus die for us, we fit be God friend.		The provision of that ransom is yet another one of the amazing works of our Father.
This one go make belle sweet the brothers. As time dey go, make refugee brothers try dey take care of theirself so that dem no go come dey feel sey dem be load to brothers.		Granted, living indefinitely on others ' generosity may erode the self - respect of the refugees and may damage their relationships with other brothers.
This one make me dey sure sey na dey direct im organization and sey wetin e want go happen. '		It gives me complete confidence that is directing his organization and that his purposes will be accomplished. "
This one mean sey people no go dey show sey dem value wetin person do for dem.		People would also be disloyal.
This promise suppose touch our mind because we still get hope to enter God rest.		Certainly, it should touch us that " a promise of entering into [ God 's ] rest remains. "
This thing wey dem do, na im dey help many of us today mek we no fear and mek we no join people wey dey worship flag for our country.		This Bible account helps many today to be courageous and refuse to worship the flag of the country where they live.
War: E pass 60 million people wey die for First World War and Second World War.		Wars: The two world wars took an estimated 60 million or more lives.
War: God Kingdom go comot things wey dey make people fight war. Things like long throat, fake religion and wayo no go dey. People no go dey think sey their country better pass other people own. Even Satan self no go dey again.		War: God 's Kingdom will eliminate such deep - seated causes of war as selfishness, corruption, patriotism, false religion, and Satan himself.
We fit ask ourself this kind question: ' How I fit use my money and property take serve God?		How can I minimize involvement with the commercial world?
We go protect ourself make we no get any character wey fit make us get strong head.		Against what hardening traits must we be on guard?
Wetin Bible talk about people wey dey serve for our time?		The Bible foretold what about 's servants in this time?
Wetin Galatians 6: 5 teach us?		What do we learn from the principle found at Galatians 6: 5?
Wetin promise us for Malachi 3: 10?		What promise is found at Malachi 3: 10?
Wetin Jephthah pikin do when im papa tell am wetin e promise?		How did Jephthah 's daughter react to her father 's promise?
Wetin Jesus do show sey e want make direct am and e get hope sey go give am wetin e need.		By refusing to do so, he showed that he was relying on for guidance and sustenance.
Wetin e mean to dey patient?		What is involved in being patient?
Wetin make Abraham use im mind wait? And wetin e go gain?		Why was Abraham willing to wait on, and what blessings will he see as a result of his patience?
Wetin make to respect and praise and Jesus no be matter of ' if you like '?		Why is honoring and Christ not optional?
Wetin make us dey sure sey we fit stop to do bad things?		What evidence gives us confidence that it is possible to turn our back on sin?
Wetin show sey to dey praise and tell person better word fit help am follow Bible advice?		What shows that commendation and encouragement are effective when we are giving counsel?
Wetin we do come from our mind and we happy to do am. "		We did it willingly and happily. "
Wetin we fit do to really dey happy and enjoy life?		What can we do to find true happiness and satisfaction?
Wetin we go do make the peace and one mind wey dey congregation no spoil?		What can we do to maintain our peace and unity?
When I dey seven years, my papa and mama send me go one church school.		At age seven, I was sent to a school for religious training.
When Jesus dey this earth, e enjoy imself but e no overdo am.		Jesus displayed a perfectly balanced view of pleasures.
When e dey grow, e no get friend to play with and nobody to talk to.		Growing up, she struggled with loneliness and a feeling of emptiness.
When person get faith for how God go take save us, that one go make am dey tell people about God Kingdom.		Faith in God 's means of salvation moves a believer to share the good news with others.
When we dey do this kind things, children go know sey organization value dem. - Ps.		In these ways and others, young ones can be made to realize that they are part of " the great congregation. " - Ps.
Which kind people no dey ever happy?		Who can never be truly happy?
You ready to forgive other people and make am easy for dem to come beg you?		Is the " road " to your forgiveness open and in good repair?
Comot from where e dey, my people. ' - REV.		Get out of her, my people. " - REV.
The correct religion dey teach family wetin go make dem happy.		For example, consider how true worship promotes family happiness.
For people wey dey serve, one thing wey better pass na to dey show sey dem get the kind character wey get.		And as for his servants, reflecting 's qualities in fuller measure is a priceless achievement.
Brother Ralph Leffler talk sey that day no be day wey person dey forget. E sey: ' Na that time people start the real preaching work wey don reach everywhere today. '		That celebrated day, " said Ralph Leffler, " was the real beginning of the Kingdom advertising campaign that today has encircled the earth. "
Charlotte na one sister wey e don pioneer for 38 years now.		Says Charlotte, who has been in the full - time service for 38 years: " People today are lost.
Wetin that one mean?		What did that mean?
E fit be sey as e dey pray, e call their name and talk about their good and bad side. And e still beg im Papa make e help am choose well.		In that prayer, Jesus likely reviewed many of his disciples by name, considered their qualities and weaknesses, and asked his Father for help in choosing them.
But if government tell us sey mek we do something wey God no like, we go tell dem with respect sey we no go do am.		Yet if the government tells us to do something that God does not want us to do, we refuse to do so, but always in a respectful way.
Why e be say the fruit wey Jesus talk about no be to make new disciples?		In this illustration, why can the fruitage not refer to new disciples?
Wetin we fit do so that the congregation go be one?		What can we do to help the congregation stay united?
Wetin some brothers and sisters wey allow God spirit to direct dem talk?		How do many view spirituality?
E hard for person to run comot from where e dey stay.		Fleeing for any reason is seldom easy.
Number two, Paul talk say e de " beg God " for them.		Second, Paul mentioned his " supplication to God for them. "
But that one no mean sey we no fit learn anything from David.		Nevertheless, we can learn valuable lessons from David.
Why E Good Mek We Dey Go Meeting?		Why Should We Meet Together for Worship?
Because people believe this lie, they don put money as number one thing for their life instead of God.		Those who believe this lie spend their lives serving " Riches " rather than God.
Get You for Mind		Cares for You "
ADAM really know say snake no de talk.		ADAM no doubt knew that serpents cannot talk.
And make you trust sey e go help you.		Above all, rely on.
Another important reason why we de preach na because we love and Jesus.		Our heartfelt love for and for Jesus is an important reason why we preach the Kingdom message.
As we dey talk about dem, you fit see some things for Bible wey talk about resurrection wey you never think about before.		As we review some of them, you might find things in God 's Word that you do not often link with your valid hope of seeing your loved one again.
Because Jesus do wetin God want, we don dey clean as Jesus sacrifice im body once and for all. ' ( Heb.		By this  will ' we have been sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all time. "
Bible talk say: " They want come catch Jesus and make Jesus king. So as e know wetin they want come do, e comot again go for mountain by e self. "		Jesus, knowing that they were about to come and seize him to make him king, withdrew again to the mountain all alone.
Bible talk sey: ' Even if [ God servant ] fall, e no go remain for ground, because na dey hold im hand. ' ( Ps.		His Word says: " Although [ one of God 's servants ] may fall, he will not be hurled down, for supports him by the hand. "
Bible warn us sey: ' No let bad thing win you, but continue to dey win bad thing with good thing. '		The Bible warns us: " Do not let yourself be conquered by the evil, but keep conquering the evil with the good. "
Brother Jason wey we don first talk about talk sey: " Since when dem make me elder come reach now, I don learn many things and e don help me dey strong.		Jason, mentioned at the outset, says: " During the time that I 've been an elder, I 've learned a lot and my confidence has grown.
But, beg make e help you, and let am use im strong hand make you strong and carry you enter im Kingdom. - Ps.		Instead, reach out to in prayer, and allow his mighty hand to strengthen you and lead you to Kingdom blessings. - Ps.
But Bible no talk sey everybody go dey behave like this.		However, these are not qualities exhibited by all people.
But Jesus want make we put mind for wetin the caretaker do, no be wetin make dem want pursue am.		Jesus, though, focuses on the steward 's reaction, not on the reasons for the dismissal.
But e no tey wey the police and other people wey dey the prison, come dey ask me why I dey there.		But soon, guards and prisoners began asking why I was there, and I gladly explained my faith to them.
But our love for the laws go de grow, and we go follow them.		We must grow to love and respect them.
Check chapter 6, " A Time of Testing ( 1914 - 1918 ) " for inside 's - Proclaimers of God 's Kingdom.		A Time of Testing ( 1914 - 1918 ). "
Daniel talk sey, ' I come tell myself sey time don reach to change many things for my life. '		Daniel says, " I concluded that it was time for me to make a 180 - degree turn. "
Dem arrest the brothers wey dey direct the work that time, wey be: Brother Rutherford, Brother Van Amburgh, and six other brothers.		As representatives of the Watch Tower Society, Brothers Rutherford, Van Amburgh, and six others were arrested.
Dem dey use wetin we contribute take support the work wey we dey do for the whole world. Dem dey use am support people wey be missionary, and other people wey dey special full - time.		They are used to further the worldwide preaching work, which includes supporting missionaries and other special full - time servants.
Dem fit advise us to put all our body for this kind work.		Many people urge us to pursue a secular career as our goal in life.
Dem fit carry firstborn right give another person.		But the right of firstborn could be transferred.
E come clear sey only me no fit stay house, so I come go stay with one of my pikin wey don marry.		So I moved in with one of my sons and his wife.
E go don pain dem well well.		This is not an imaginary account.
E go explain to am sey na good thing e dey tell am, and sey e no go hard am to do.		Then reinforcing her words, she may administer some form of appropriate punishment.
E no go make sense at all!		Not at all!
E no surprise us because for many religion, dem get one man or woman wey be their leader.		That is a question often put to 's.
E sey: ' I dey vex for dem well well. ' - Acts 26: 11.		In time, he described his former feelings toward Christ 's followers: " I was extremely furious with them. " - Acts 26: 11.
Elders want make you enjoy your new congregation, and dem ready to help you.		The elders want you to enjoy your new congregation, and they are ready to assist.
Even if people dey laugh us, we still believe sey people wey die fit come life again. - Mark 12: 18; Acts 4: 2, 3; 17: 32; 23: 6 - 8.		Even in the face of mockery, we hold firm to our belief in the resurrection. - Mark 12: 18; Acts 4: 2, 3; 17: 32; 23: 6 - 8.
For example, one sister wey come from Germany wey im name na Bianca, talk sey: " I no fit thank finish as e take help me with everything wey dey worry me and as e no leave me any day.		For example, Bianca from Germany says: " I cannot thank enough for helping me with my worries and for being at my side each day.
For example, the earth dey where dem dey call Milky Way galaxy.		Some think that there are billions of stars in our Milky Way galaxy alone.
For example, young people dey find work, but dem no see.		Young people search in vain for employment.
Give example of one brother wey use better eye look problem.		Give an example of a modern - day servant who had the right outlook.
God talk sey: ' You fit chop belleful from the fruit of any tree wey dey the garden.		He said: " From every tree of the garden you may eat to satisfaction.
How Bible take direct wetin Jesus do and teach?		How did God 's Word guide Jesus ' life and teaching?
How Jacob take show sey God spirit dey direct am?		How did Jacob show himself to be a spiritual man?
How Satan de try to use e power control people?		How does Satan try to influence individuals?
How apostle Paul take show sey to talk word wey dey make people strong na better thing?		How did the apostle Paul show that he saw the need to encourage others?
How you dey today? "		How are you today? "
I no too remember the things wey we learn that day, but I no forget your greeting.		I cannot remember much of the meeting, except your greeting.
If we look am well, we go see sey this things na part of wetin we promise and we must do am.		Did we not, in effect, promise that we would do such things?
If you be Christian wey dey stay for this kind place, no need to even ask whether make you give government worker money or something for the work wey dem do for you.		Where this situation exists, the question of whether a Christian might give gifts or tips to government employees does not even arise.
If you share this number, e reach six people wey want Bible study every month		At this one location, an average of six Bible studies are requested every month
Im face no good at all and e no dey gree make people near am.		He was obnoxious and had a knack for keeping people away from him.
Bless Us Because We Bear Wahala ( P.		Blessed Be Your Good Sense!
Dey Help Us No Matter Our Problem, June		Dec. Married Christians view IUD as compatible with the Scriptures?
dey feel for you, so you fit believe wetin e promise for Bible, when e sey: ' No worry because I be your God.		You can fully trust 's compassionate promise: " Do not be anxious, for I am your God.
Jesus don talk sey people go preach the good news about God Kingdom for everywhere for this world. ( Matt.		As we know, Jesus foretold that the good news of the Kingdom would be preached in all the inhabited earth.
Jesus know sey people for our family fit cause trouble for us as we dey follow wetin e teach.		Jesus knew that his teachings would divide people and that those who follow him would need courage to do so in the face of opposition.
Make we first talk about how King David take help im pikin ready to do one big work.		To begin, let us see how King David equipped his son to take on an important responsibility.
Make we no let family matter, whether na marriage or to train pikin, make us forget sey day go soon come.		Let us take to heart the lesson that even family - matters, such as marriage and the raising of children, should not be allowed to crowd out our sense of urgency as to 's day.
Make we use one example talk am.		This can be illustrated with a pilot flying an airplane.
Many of dem don sabi how to hide the bad things wey dem dey do.		The wicked may think that they are safe from such judgment.
Many people ready to do anything to fit travel go country wey money dey.		Many risk their lives to move to more prosperous lands.
Many people wey dey those far far place for Australia, know am well well and dem dey respect am. Australia dey among the place wey people no too many.		Australia has one of the lowest population densities in the world, and especially is the outback sparsely populated.
My mama come tell am how im papa and im senior brother take die. E tell am sey when two of dem dey inside boat, their boat hit bomb for one water wey dem dey call North Sea. Na so two of dem take drink water die.		Mother told Willie that shortly before the Great War, her father and her older brother drowned when their fishing boat hit a mine in the North Sea.
Na God spirit dey help us get strong faith. ( Gal.		God 's spirit is needed to produce strong faith.
Na only two weeks e take the 550 brothers and sisters to give about 60,000 different different book!		The 550 participants placed about 60,000 pieces of literature in just two weeks!
Na wetin talk dem go do, or na wetin Satan talk?		Would they obey, or would they listen to the serpent?
No wonder Bible talk sey: ' Smile dey make person heart happy. '		After all, " a cheerful glance makes the heart rejoice. "
One teacher wey im name na Timothy Evans talk sey: " Small small pikin need word wey go make dem strong the way plant need water.		Children. need encouragement like plants need water, " explains educator Timothy Evans.
People dey tell dem sey if dem go school, dem go get better work. Dem go come get money, and people go dey respect dem. Dem fit still show dem things wey go make dem believe sey na person wey go university dem dey pay pass person wey go secondary school.		They are led to believe that advanced education opens the door to high - paying and prestigious jobs, and statistics are often presented to show the gap in earnings between graduates from such institutions and those who completed only basic schooling.
People wey check am now talk sey e don worse pass before. E no surprise us, because Bible talk sey ' for last days ' people ' no go fit control theirself. ' - 2 Tim.		This is no surprise to students of God 's Word because the Bible foretold that one evidence that we are living in " the last days " is that men would be " without self - control. " - 2 Tim.
People wey they no train their conscience make e work well, be like ship wey e get bad steering.		Those with a poorly trained conscience can be likened to a ship that is navigating with a defective compass.
So, don give me one pikin, one daughter - in - law and three grandchildren. ' - 3 John 4.		So has given me a son, a daughter - in - law, and three grandchildren. " - 3 John 4.
That evening, we enjoy as we study Bible together.		We spent a wonderful evening studying the Bible.
That verse talk sey Esau " no value holy things " and e " sell im right as firstborn [ give Jacob ] because of one plate of food. "		That verse says that Esau did " not appreciate sacred things " and " gave up [ to Jacob the ] rights as firstborn in exchange for one meal. "
The Greek word wey Paul use for here mean sey person " dey sure of " something, or e " believe well well sey something na true. "		In the original language, that phrase means " to be assured of " or " to be convinced and certain of the truth of something. "
The brothers and sisters wey dey your congregation fit help you do wetin God talk about politics and war.		The brothers and sisters in your congregation can help you to stay neutral.
The man like wetin dem do for im mama.		The son was most grateful.
The sister fit no know sey wetin e talk help Martha well well.		Possibly, the older sister did not realize the good effect that her words would have on Marthe.
The third thing wey God don give us, na the truth wey we don learn from Bible.		A third spiritual treasure is our repository of revealed truths.
The truth be sey, na bad thing to give person something to bribe am or to collect something wey be bribe.		Of course, it would be wrong to seek to corrupt anyone with a " gift, " just as it would also be wrong to be corrupted by accepting such a " gift. "
This one fit be the time wey life hard am pass!		This must have been the most difficult time in his life!
This one hard the people more - more because the tax collectors de do wayo.		And the corruption of the tax collectors increased the sense of being under a heavy burden.
This topic go help us know why e be sey na wetin want suppose help us choose the correct thing.		This article explains why the best decisions are made when we allow God 's thinking to be the determining factor.
This topic go talk about four things wey fit help us endure and three example of people wey endure.		This article reviews four things that will help us to endure and three examples of faithful endurance.
Timothy still dey young when e make up im mind to serve.		Timothy was a disciple who made the truth his own at a young age.
Try to think of three better things wey dey do for you everyday, and thank am for this things.		Why not determine that each day you will think of at least three things for which you can be thankful?
Two of dem baptize for June 1951 and dem start to pioneer after six month.		In June 1951, both were baptized, and six months later, they began pioneering.
We dey travel go post office many times go carry the different different box wey dem put magazine.		We had to make many trips to the post office to pick up the boxes of magazines and carry them to our accommodations.
We go fit near pass before because we trust am. And we no go dey buy everything wey we want or wey we see for advert, just because we get the money.		We draw closer to by putting our trust in him and not trying to indulge every whim or to buy every thing the world offers, even if we can afford it.
We need to do wetin we fit do to make sure sey we no copy the bad character wey people for this world get.		We who serve God must be careful that we do not become influenced by the unrighteous attitudes of others.
Wetin Isaiah 32: 1, 2 talk wey elders dey do?		What is the role of the elders as described at Isaiah 32: 1, 2?
Wetin dey Romans chapter 8 go help you dey sure.		Romans chapter 8 offers advice that will help you to do so.
Wetin we fit do so that this kind thing no go happen to us?		How can we avoid falling into that trap?
Wetin we know about the time wey some people go resurrect go heaven?		What indication do we have about the timing of the heavenly resurrection?
What of?		Does do the same?
When I dey read about Jesus, Paul and other people wey no tire to preach, I dey think about wetin I suppose learn from dem wey go help me dey serve well? '		When I read about how Jesus, Paul, and others persevered in the ministry, do I meditate on how their perseverance ought to affect my service to? '
When dem complain about how Moses take dey lead dem, come talk sey: ' Which time this people go begin respect me? ' ( Num.		When the people complained about Moses ' leadership, asked: " How much longer will this people treat me without respect? "
When morning reach, na house wey don scatter you go see for everywhere.		When we went out the next morning, we would find whole areas of destroyed houses.
When person give money to get wetin e suppose get and when person give money to get wetin e no suppose get, na two different thing.		It is one thing to give a tip in order to obtain what one is legally entitled to, yet quite another to seek an illegal favor.
Whether the problem big or small, we go show sey we dey trust if we do wetin dey Bible.		For example, on occasion you may face some opposition from your family regarding attending meetings or an assembly.
Why dem call Jesus " the firstfruits "?		Why is it significant that Jesus is " the firstfruits "?
Why e be sey for person to fit do wetin e want, and to get the right to talk sey something good or e bad, na two different things?		Why should we not equate free will with the right to decide what is good and what is bad?
Why you no suppose lie?		Why do you want to be honest?
You fit still talk sey Jesus Christ come die to save us.		You would likely mention your belief in Jesus Christ, who died as a ransom.
You fit use wetin your pikin dey see every day, help am get faith and teach am about the things wey make ( Check paragraph 10 )		You can use common objects to build faith in God and in creation ( See paragraph 10 )
You for let am stop you to serve?		Would you have let it stumble you to the point that you would no longer serve God?
You go still happy to tell am sey paradise dey come for front, and na good people go stay there forever.		And you would happily add that an earthly paradise is ahead, where God 's people will live forever.
One way we fit follow Paul example na to see how Paul take handle court matter for im time.		One way that we might do so has to do with Paul 's experiences with the legal systems of his day.
Which other example you don use?		What illustrations have you found to be effective?
This slave get many way wey e take dey direct us, and correct us.		Made available in many ways, that food provides valuable instruction, or discipline.
The truth be sey we no suppose praise anybody like god.		Truly, no human warrants the kind of honor that borders on idolatry.
Why preaching suppose dey among the things wey go dey our mind pass?		Why must the ministry be high on our list of priorities?
Wetin Joseph no tell the oga of the people wey dey serve Pharaoh wine?		What details did Joseph evidently not include in his conversation with the cupbearer?
Wetin happen to Sarah wey surprise am? Another person wey we go talk about na Joseph.		How did something unexpected occur in the case of Abraham 's wife, Sarah?
Wetin you like about how treat Shebna?		How are you encouraged by 's treatment of Shebna?
Which question we go answer for this topic?		What questions will this article discuss?
Why tell im people make dem ' come back to am '?		Why did ask his people to ' return to him '?
Wetin person wey dey serve suppose do if e know sey im brother or sister dey vex for am?		How should a Christian act if he believes that his brother " has something against " him?
We Thank God for Im Favor		Grateful Recipients of God 's Undeserved Kindness
And na dem write the first 39 book wey dey Bible for Hebrew and Aramaic language.		They were the people initially " entrusted with the sacred pronouncements of God. "
You fit quick see this one for people body when e be sey money no too dey or when e hard to get work.		A financial crisis or uncertainty about employment has an impact on honesty.
Question From People Wey Dey Read Our Book		Questions From Readers
Even if Bible talk sey God go soon destroy this world, God never judge wicked people sey dem no fit repent.		As individuals, they have not yet received their final judgment. It is this system that stands condemned.
APOSTLE PAUL talk sey: ' I sorry for myself! '		MISERABLE man that I am!
And wetin we suppose do when person invite us go im house?		And how can we be good guests?
Another thing wey " one " fit still mean na to get one mind for something and to take one mind do am.		The word " one " also suggests unity and oneness of purpose and activity.
Apostle John talk sey: ' If we confess our sin, because im na person wey dey do wetin e talk and wey dey do good, e go forgive us. '		The apostle John wrote: " If we confess our sins, he is faithful and righteous so as to forgive us our sins. "
Because some hotel that time no dey treat customer well, and na bad things people dey do for there.		Inns had terrible reputations, offered bad service, and were dens of immoral conduct.
Because they love us, they fit talk say e no good make we de go our meeting. ( Matt.		He might also influence well - meaning family members to discourage us from attending meetings.
Bible talk about people wey God go resurrect go heaven sey " na turn by turn e go happen. " ( 1 Cor. 15: 23 ) So we believe sey na so e go still be for this earth.		Speaking of the heavenly resurrection, the Bible says that those who will experience that will be raised " each one in his own proper order. "
Bible talk sey: ' dey happy with people wey dey fear am, and people wey dey put mind for im love wey no dey fail. ' ( Ps.		finds pleasure in those who fear him, in those waiting for his loyal love.
But Sarah no fit believe im eye when e get belle come born Isaac. - Gen.		The birth of Isaac certainly exceeded all that Sarah could ever have imagined. - Gen.
But as e be, we no dey fit.		As it is, we fail to do so.
But plenty better things fit come out of greeting, even if e dey short.		However, even a brief greeting can have very positive effects.
But the one wey better pass be sey, I come near more more. "		I got understanding and, most important, developed a close relationship with. "
Corinna talk sey: " We comot for where we dey work for evening come trek go where people dey enter train wey be 25 kilometer ( 15 miles ) from where the farm dey.		Corinna said: " We left our work area in the evening and walked to a railway station 25 kilometers ( 15 miles ) away.
Daniel, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego follow wetin dey the Law when dem dey live slave life for Babylon.		And we know that Daniel maintained regular communication with God in prayer.
E come happen sey, im husband happy well well sey im wife stand well for wetin e believe, and no do anything wey go make im mind judge am.		As it turned out, her husband was very proud that his wife had taken a stand in line with her beliefs and her conscience.
E get one sister wey e name na Noma. Na Xhosa e dey speak, and na Xhosa - language congregation e dey.		At first, a Xhosa - speaking sister named Noma had reservations about inviting white brothers from an English - language congregation to her modest home.
E no dey hard person wey dey quick vex, to talk bad word or curse person when e vex.		People who are quick - tempered often express their anger with abusive speech.
E pay wetin Sennacherib sey make e pay.		But how was the situation resolved?
E still tell us the bad thing wey come out of am. Wetin fit help you if you dey face this kind problem like Kim?		It also shows the sad consequences that can result from such uncontrolled behavior.
Even with that one, dem do wetin dem fit do to follow wetin dey the Law.		Nevertheless, they did what they could to observe God 's Law.
First of all, Christian must be person wey no dey play wayo.		Christians must be honest.
For Matthew 28: 19, the Greek word wey dem translate as " make disciple, " mean to teach person with the mind sey the person go become disciple.		The Greek word translated " make disciples " at Matthew 28: 19 has the sense of teaching with the intent of making pupils, or disciples.
For where!		Far from it!
From Adam time go reach Noah time, how marriage be?		What is the history of marriage from the time of Adam to the Flood?
How prayer take help some people for Bible?		How did prayer prove to be of comfort to some mentioned in the Bible?
How to Pull the Old Character Trowey, Aug.		What Is Armageddon? No. 6
If to sey want first tell Moses the kind power or sense wey e get, e for tell am.		could have stressed his power or his wisdom.
If we want get life wey no go end, want make we dey gentle and still dey patient.		Being clothed with mildness and patience is not optional for a Christian.
If we wear better cloth wey fine, clean, and good for eye, e go make people respect us as people wey dey serve.		When we are neat, clean, modestly dressed, and well - groomed, people are more likely to respect us as ministers of the Sovereign Lord.
Jesus use am for one woman wey get one sickness wey dey make blood comot for im body for 12 years.		Jesus used it when he spoke to a woman who had suffered from a flow of blood for 12 years.
Make you still let the elders know sey you ready to help do any work for congregation. E fit be to clean Kingdom Hall, to handle part for meeting if the person wey get the part no dey, or to dey carry person go meeting.		Also, let the elders know that you are available to assist in any way, perhaps by cleaning the Kingdom Hall, substituting for a meeting part, or offering to give someone a ride to the meetings.
Many of dem dey feel sey e no concern dem when we dey tell dem sey this world go soon end.		For the most part, they are apathetic when we try to tell them where this world is headed.
Many people dey come stay for this convent, like student and old people.		Many people, such as students and elderly people, came to stay at the convent.
Me and my wife, Janette		With my wife, Janette
My servant dem go happy well well because their mind dey sweet dem. ' ( Isa.		My servants will shout joyfully because of the good condition of the heart. "
Na because dem no want mek anything disturb dem for work.		Because they want to concentrate on serving more.
Na seven and half years e take build the temple finish.		He showed great courage, went to work, and with 's help completed the magnificent temple in seven and a half years.
Na so e still be for brothers and sisters wey want be pioneer, Bethelite, or Kingdom Hall construction worker.		In each case, he works hard to meet the qualifications needed to care for added responsibility in the congregation.
Na so some people no accept our message before.		Similarly, some individuals today who have not responded to the Bible 's message before may have a change of heart and look for help when their world is suddenly shaken by a seismic event.
Na this one make am call im name join people like Noah and Job. Daniel no fail. E get faith and e continue to do wetin talk till e die.		Indeed, he was likely in his late 90 ' s when God 's angel warmly said to him: " O Daniel, you very precious man. " - Dan.
No be sey you dey learn all this things just to sabi.		Of course, your goal is not simply to increase factual knowledge.
One brother dey use Bible preach to two people wey dey one village for where dem dey call central highlands of Ethiopia.		A brother uses the Bible to share the Kingdom message with two villagers in the central highlands of Ethiopia.
One publisher wey sabi preach well, dey use our tract dey preach to im school mate dem.		A resourceful Kingdom proclaimer uses one of our tracts to witness to fellow students.
Papa and mama go make sure sey God Word touch their pikin mind. Serge and im wife Muriel dey congregation wey dey use another language.		Christian parents do well to make sure that God 's Word gradually reaches their children 's minds and hearts.
People wey dey serve no get the kind character wey people for this world get. Dem really love other people.		In contrast with the people who show the widespread lack of love today, those who worship have genuine love for their fellow man.
People wey write Bible for the apostle time show how faith and love dey important reach. Dem use the two character together many times for the same Bible verse.		Because of the importance of faith and love, Christian Bible writers highlighted these qualities together multiple times, often in the same sentence or phrase.
Person wey dey find gold fit see small small pieces for inside stone.		A prospector may find tiny quantities of gold inside igneous rocks.
Sin wey you do before ( Check paragraph 11 - 14 )		Past sins ( See paragraphs 11 - 14 )
Since na tabernacle the pikin go dey work, e no go marry and e no go born pikin.		Because his daughter would serve at the tabernacle, she would never have children.
Since to serve good and make sense, we fit dey think sey e go easy for dem to choose who dem go serve.		You might think that this was a simple choice because it is always wise and beneficial to serve.
Sivulsky ), Aug.		Abigail ), June
So e come sey: " When I dey weak, na that time I get power. " ( 2 Cor.		He concluded: " When I am weak, then I am powerful. "
So the group wey carry me come run pass where mountain dey, dey go Albania one country wey near Greece.		The group holding me captive fled through the mountains toward neighboring Albania.
Support Only God Kingdom, Apr.		Strengthen Your Faith in What You Hope For, Oct.
The husband talk say e no really sabi teach, and e no de arrange for family worship everytime.		Her husband admitted that he was not the best teacher and did not arrange for regular family worship.
The truth be sey, later use am write two book for Bible.		In fact, he was later inspired to write two letters that became part of the Bible.
The truth be sey, na God dey help people do the work. - Ps.		However, God can help others to do the work. - Ps.
Then God send Prophet Shemaiah go meet Rehoboam and the leaders for Israel. E tell them say: " Wuna don leave me, so I don leave wuna too for the hand of Shishak. "		At this point, Shemaiah the prophet delivered God 's message to Rehoboam and his princes: " You have abandoned me, so I have also abandoned you to the hand of Shishak. "
This new overseer no vex with the brother but e no gree leave the matter like that.		The new overseer did not take offense at this outburst, but neither could he ignore it.
To overdo things na serious matter. E worse pass to do something by mistake.		Presumptuous acts are more serious than innocent mistakes.
To really understand how person fit use all im mind serve, we go talk about Asa, Jehoshaphat, Hezekiah, and Josiah. Four of dem na king wey rule for Judah and na all their mind dem use serve.		To appreciate what it means to serve God with a complete heart, let us consider the life of Asa as well as that of some other kings of Judah who served God with heartfelt devotion - Jehoshaphat, Hezekiah, and Josiah.
Unless e get serious thing wey happen, we no suppose miss Memorial.		Frankly, we want them to see that unless it is physically or circumstantially impossible, we will be present at the Memorial.
WHY e good make we dey encourage each other pass before?		WHY should we intensify our efforts to be encouraging?
We dey show sey we want near and im Pikin.		We show that we want to draw closer to him and his Son.
We fit understand why e talk sey e no want too poor.		We can readily understand his reason for not wanting to be extremely poor.
We fit use part of the time for our family worship do research about people wey we no too know, for our congregation or where we dey preach.		We might include time in our family worship to do research on peoples we are not acquainted with in our congregation or territory.
We see am for Bible sey e pain Jesus when Lazarus die. That place for Bible na one of the place wey fit make our mind come down.		The account about Jesus ' intense grief at the time of Lazarus ' death is just one of countless consoling scriptures found in God 's comforting Word.
We self fit learn from wetin tell Job, and e fit make our mind come down.		We too can acquire proper perspective and gain comfort from the account of Job.
Wetin Jephthah pikin do show sey to do work better pass to marry and to born pikin. E tell im papa sey: ' Do wetin you don promise. '		She showed that 's service came first by saying to her father: " Do to me as you have promised. "
Wetin e good make we ready to do?		What kind of determination is needed?
Wetin fit dey hold dem?		What could be the reason for this?
Wetin fit help us choose wetin good?		How can we be more successful in making decisions?
Wetin give dem mind?		How did they muster up the needed courage?
Wetin go help us no put hand for sex matter wey no clean for God eye?		How can we protect ourselves against the enticement of immoral desires?
When dem really repent, nobody dey tell before e pity dem and before e show dem love. E sey: ' I go cure dem make dem no dey leave me.		When they expressed heartfelt repentance, willingly extended love and mercy, saying: " I will heal their unfaithfulness.
When wuna de do family worship, make you remember say one advice fit no work for all your children. Na so because some fit be small pikin and other ones fit dey around 13 to 19 years.		When presiding over family worship, the parent should remember that the guidance a young child needs may well differ from that of a teenager.
You go carry am for mind, even when e don tey wey the thing happen? Or you go quick settle the matter as Bible talk?		Or will we follow the Bible 's wise advice to settle matters quickly?
na you mold us; all of us na your hand work. ' - ISA.		O,. you are our Potter; we are all the work of your hand. " - ISA.
Joshua wey be Nun pikin get sense because God spirit full im body. '		Joshua the son of Nun was full of the spirit of wisdom.
Many times, when person start to do this things, e fit no know sey e don dey overdo.		Often, when we act like this, we may not even be aware that we have crossed the line from modesty to presumptuousness.
The governing body and other brothers wey dey work with dem still send letter wey dem write to all the congregation, to tell dem wetin dem go dey do. ( 1 Tim.		Counsel and instructions were also provided by means of inspired letters written by men who were members of or closely associated with the first - century governing body.
Bible no talk sey the cherub vex or complain for this work or sey dem think sey dem too big to do this kind work.		The Bible does not say that the cherubs complained or felt that they were too important for their new assignment.
If human being die, e no fit stand up from grave by imself. ( 2 Sam. 12: 23; Ps.		If a man dies, he cannot raise himself up from the grave and live again.
If we want be like Jesus, make we do everything to make sure sey we no carry body up. This one go make us no think sey we better pass other people.		We may have to work hard to develop the humility needed to show honor to others in this way.
But e still show sey e get faith, when e talk sey: ' I don already tell wetin I go do, and I no fit change am. '		Even so, Jephthah faithfully said: " I have opened my mouth to, and I am unable to turn back. "
Satan de use the same style tempt us today. E know say don promise us many good things for paradise.		Similarly, Satan knows that offers us material benefits in the new system.
How we fit show say Satan never fool us?		How can we show that we have not been fooled by Satan 's deception?
How Jesus see God Law?		How did Jesus feel about God 's Law?
Daniel and im three friend tell theirself sey na only go dey mold dem.		Daniel and his companions were determined to give exclusive devotion to as their Potter.
E fit still mean person family member.		It can also signify kinship.
So, wetin we fit learn?		What is the lesson for us?
Why we no suppose to reject any person?		What reasons do we have to welcome everyone?
E clear say their conscience no direct them for the right way!		Clearly, their consciences are treacherous guides!
When we do the thing wey go make bless us, this one show sey we dey thank and sey we really like wetin e dey do for us.		We show our deep appreciation and gratitude when we accept 's generous offer.
All this excuse no get head at all!		Lame excuses but no justification!
Instead, we go continue to put body for the work and belle go dey sweet us as we dey serve.		Instead, we can be sure that God 's servants worldwide will continue to flourish spiritually.
Why Jew people no suppose dey proud because of their tribe?		Why did the Jews not have reason for racial pride?
After, ' the spirit come make am go inside wilderness. '		Thereafter, " the spirit impelled him to go into the wilderness. "
Amy, wey dey about 35 years come from United States.		Amy, now in her mid - 30 ' s, comes from the United States.
And e do some good things for Israel people.		And he did some good things in behalf of 's nation.
And make we still get am for mind sey good thing or bad thing dey come out of anything wey we do. Na this one make apostle Paul talk sey: " We dey free to do anything, but no be everything good dey come out from.		For that reason, Paul prefaced his statement with these words: " All things are lawful [ or, " permissible, " ftn. ], but not all things are advantageous.
And when brothers and sisters invite me to come spend time with dem, e dey make me happy no be small.		Those expressions make me feel loved and cared for.
Angels help the people wey God choose.		Angels assisted God 's representatives.
As brothers and sisters dey travel go preach for Turkey, dem dey meet people wey never hear about before.		Every day, need - greaters who moved to Turkey meet people who have never heard about.
Because Christians that time wear the " new character, " they begin see everybody the same way, as God de see them. - Col.		Putting on " the new personality, " the early Christians came to view all people as equal in the sight of God. - Col.
Because dem born all of us with sin, make we no stop to do everything wey we fit do to make sure sey we no do the bad thing wey ' our body want. ' - Eph.		As imperfect people, all of us need to keep up our fight against " the desires of our flesh, " including materialism. - Eph.
Before assembly start, one brother wey be Bethelite dey always talk with young people wey want baptize.		When attending circuit assemblies, a brother who serves at Bethel has made it his custom to speak with baptism candidates before the program.
But Bible tell us sey: " Dem comot from where the Sanhedrin dey.		Yet, they " went out from before the Sanhedrin, rejoicing because they had been counted worthy to be dishonored in behalf of his name. "
But no dey change. E still want make we dey judge matter well and dey pity people.		Yet, does not change, and the qualities of justice and mercy are still important to him.
But all of them, even young and old publishers, de try preach to everybody for their territory.		But all, including older publishers, endeavor to cover the local territory thoroughly.
But before dem know, Peter just stop to chop with dem! How you think sey dem go feel? E go don surprise and pain dem well well.		We can imagine their surprise and disappointment, though, when Peter suddenly stopped eating with them.
But since Adam time, as people dey old and dey die go, other people dey come. ( Eccl.		Sadly, though, from the days of Adam, each generation grows old and is replaced by another.
But the things wey e later dey write, come different.		The early sections of his journal were dark and gloomy, but his more recent entries were different.
Dem no want stop to dey direct the work.		They do not want to lose control of an assignment.
E get one sister wey im name na Ericka. The sister na doctor and e dey stay America.		Ericka, who lives in the United States, is a physician.
Eve blame the snake. ( Gen.		Eve blamed the serpent for deceiving her.
Even though sey e senior me well well, we really enjoy to waka together for preaching.		Despite our age difference, we had very enjoyable times together in the ministry.
Even when Satan make people suffer Jesus well well before dem kill am, Jesus still do wetin im Father want.		Even when Satan subjected Jesus to an agonizing death, Jesus remained completely loyal to his heavenly Father.
For May 1915, dem bomb this ship for water near Ireland.		The Lusitania was torpedoed off the southern coast of Ireland in May 1915.
For example, when one man for Thailand go our convention, e see sey the brothers and sisters love theirself.		A man in Thailand, for example, was touched by the love he saw among the brothers at a regional convention.
For inside The Watch Tower, September 1915, wetin we believe change, and e sey make the Bible Student dem no dey join army.		The Watch Tower of September 1915 refined our viewpoint and suggested that Bible Students avoid joining the military.
From 1952 go reach 1956, dem put Maria for one prison camp. The camp near where dem dey call Gorkiy for Russia ( dem dey call am Nizhniy Novgorod now ). Dem put am there to dey do hard work.		From 1952 to 1956, Maria was put to work in a labor camp near the city of Gorkiy ( now Nizhniy Novgorod ) in Russia.
Gloria dey special when I marry - am, and e still dey special		Gloria was a jewel when I married her, and she still is
Hardaker for e clinic.		Hardaker 's clinic.
Hebrews 12: 2 talk sey: ' Because of the blessing wey dey im front, e endure, e no mind the shame, and now e don sitdown for the right hand of God throne. '		For the joy that was set before him, " states Hebrews 12: 2, " he endured a torture stake, despising shame, and has sat down at the right hand of the throne of God. "
How God take dey train us to fight our enemy?		How does God train us to fight our enemies?
How this vision take concern us today?		How does Zechariah 's record of those visions affect us today?
I come go their house, and we use plenty time talk about Bible. Na biro and paper we use.		So I visited their home, and we had a lengthy discussion using written notes.
I come tell myself sey, ' If I want be better husband wey go help my family serve, I need to do something. ' "		I thought to myself, ' If I am going to be my wife 's spiritual head, I have to do something. ' "
If people no really want do something, Satan no fit force them.		Satan cannot force people to act against their own will.
Witness people for the area still dey there to welcome am. E dey come follow dem go their three days national convention. The Golden Age magazine ( wey dem dey call Awake!		Local are also on hand with a hearty welcome for Brother Rutherford, who has come to attend their three - day national convention.
don show sey e dey pity for people. But no be only that one.		Not only has shown compassion but he has also taught his people the need to display that quality.
promise am sey e go punish bad people. Wetin tell Zechariah give am mind.		had guaranteed that he would hold dishonest people accountable for their wicked deeds.
sey na only people wey don marry suppose sleep with each other.		The law of God that permits sexual relations only between a man and a woman who are married to each other is part of what defines the marriage arrangement.
talk sey dem go ' use the crown take dey remember ' wetin dem do to support im work.		The crown then served " as a memorial, " or " reminder, " of their contribution toward true worship.
talk sey the people wey e choose with im spirit dey righteous and dem be im children. And the ' other sheep ' wey go stay for this earth dey righteous and dem be im friend. ( John 10: 16; Rom.		declares anointed Christians righteous as his sons and those of the " other sheep " righteous as his friends.
Jesus come this world come die ' once and for all. '		Jesus came to earth and died " once for all time. "
Johannes wey come from Germany, talk sey: " I learn some things wey I fit use for my preaching.		I learned some lessons for my own ministry, " said Johannes from Germany.
Joy na character wey dey come from person heart.		Joy, in contrast, is a deep - seated quality of the heart.
Make I talk wetin happen before e call me.		Let me explain what led to that conversation.
Moses tell Israel people sey: ' your God go make one of una brother to be prophet like me.		your God will raise up for you from among your brothers a prophet like me, " Moses told the Israelites.
Na anything wey person dey do wey no fit make am near.		Any pursuits that are spiritually dead, vain, or fruitless.
Na because Bible tell us sey make we dey do like.		Because the Bible urges you to imitate.
Na im make we no suppose praise dem for their work. Instead we go respect dem like other people.		Thus, we show religious leaders regard as fellow humans, but we do not show them special honor.
Na so because our yeartext talk sey: " The people wey put their hope for go get power again. " - Isa.		It is embodied in the words displayed there from our yeartext: " Those hoping in will regain power. " - Isa.
Na three times Sakura comot belle.		As a result, " she confesses with shame, " I had three abortions. "
No be every time we dey see people for house when we dey preach from house to house.		We often find that people are not at home when we preach from door to door.
One Bible verse wey don help me well well na Isaiah 30: 18.		A scripture that has greatly encouraged me is Isaiah 30: 18.
One Sanhedrin member wey im name na Nicodemus, come dey like wetin Jesus dey teach.		Nicodemus, a member of the Sanhedrin, became interested in Jesus ' teaching.
PEOPLE wey serve well, from Abel time come reach our time don fight for their faith.		FROM the first faithful human, Abel, down to our day, loyal worshippers have struggled.
Paul write sey: ' We don win finish for all this things because of the person wey love us.		Paul wrote: " We are coming off completely victorious through the one who loved us.
Prophet Isaiah write about wetin happen for im time, and wey still dey happen for our time.		By our " setting the mind on the spirit, " we enjoy peace with our Maker.
Since e know where the stars dey one by one, e clear sey e know us one by one. E know where you dey, how body dey do you, and e know wetin you really need anytime.		The God who knows where each star is at any given time also knows you as an individual - exactly where you are, precisely how you feel, and specifically what you need at any given moment!
So for their eye the thief don already die.		That condemned criminal is as good as dead.
Some people wey dey stay Jerusalem for Jesus time, think sey the water wey dey Bethzatha wey be like swimming pool, fit cure person when the water ' dey shake. '		Some inhabitants of Jerusalem in Jesus ' day thought that the pool of Bethzatha had healing powers when its water was " stirred up. "
The Greek word wey dem translate as " to make person strong " mean " to call person come your side. "		The Greek word usually translated " encouragement " literally means " a calling to one 's side. "
The book, film, and program wey people dey watch for television today, dey teach children make dem no dey hear word.		He wrote that in the last days, children would be disobedient to parents.
The book of Mark talk sey Joseph na person wey people respect well well for Sanhedrin.		The inspired Gospel of Mark calls Joseph " a reputable member of the Council. "
The disciple wey be James write for Bible sey: ' The sense wey God dey give, first, e pure, e like peace, e get open mind, e ready to do wetin dem tell am, e dey pity person and sabi do good, e no dey do partial, e no dey play wayo. ' ( Jas.		The disciple James wrote: " The wisdom from above is first of all pure, then peaceable, reasonable, ready to obey, full of mercy and good fruits, impartial, not hypocritical. "
The first people wey I try to preach to na my brothers and sisters.		I started with my siblings.
The truth be sey, if we check everything wey happen the time wey dem do all this translation, we dey sure sey wetin promise don happen. E protect im Word, so that e go last reach our time.		Nevertheless, when we review the history of these and many other translations that have been published, it gives support to this fact: Just as promised, his Word has endured.
The truth be sey, nobody today fit talk how apostle Paul really be.		Frankly, no man today can be certain of Paul 's appearance.
Think about how strong hand fit make you strong and get mind so that you go fit endure.		Consider how 's mighty hand can give us the strength and courage to endure.
This one go help us use better mind wait for.		What should be our personal determination?
This one na even one of the main message wey e preach about. ( Matt.		In fact, Jesus ' principal message included the call to repent from sin.
This two topic go help us value Bible well well. E go still help us love wey give us Bible more more.		These articles will deepen our gratitude for the Bible as well as our love for its Author.
To copy Timothy example, make you " dey check how you take dey live your life and wetin you dey teach everytime. " - 1 Tim.		In imitation of Timothy, " pay constant attention to yourself and to your teaching. " - 1 Tim.
To download our book and other things for any other website fit put person for trouble. dey use only the " slave wey get sense and wey dem fit trust " take teach im people.		has entrusted the responsibility of providing spiritual food to " the faithful and discreet slave " alone.
We fit encourage elders, missionary, pioneer, and Bethelites if we dey thank dem for the work wey dem dey do. This one go make dem happy.		The same can be true of elders, missionaries, pioneers, and Bethel family members who receive a word of appreciation for their faithful service.
We go fit come ask sey, ' Since heaven dey happy, people wey dey earth no go still happy as one sinner don repent, come dey live better life? ' - Heb.		We ask, ' Since there is joy in heaven, should there not also be joy on earth when a sinner has repented, turned around, and made straight paths for his feet? ' - Heb.
Wetin Shebna story teach you about how God take dey correct person?		What has Shebna 's experience taught you about God 's discipline?
Wetin don happen before wey give Christians hope sey people wey don die go come back to life?		What past events gave Christians a basis for confidence that there will be a resurrection?
Wetin e get for mind and everything wey e dey do, nobody fit know am finish! ' - Rom.		How unsearchable his judgments are and beyond tracing out his ways are! " - Rom.
Wetin go help us treat other people well?		the way we relate to others?
Wetin we fit do to get the kind character wey like?		What can we do to develop qualities that loves?
Wetin you go gain If you join do full - time service when you dey young?		How can serving fully in your youth prepare you for other responsibilities in the future?
When I reach there, I go the 1953 New World Society Assembly.		Upon arrival, I was able to attend the 1953 New World Society Assembly.
When Jesus baptize, John the Baptizer see ' sey heaven open and holy spirit come on top Jesus like dove. '		At Jesus ' baptism, John the Baptizer saw " the heavens being parted and, like a dove, the spirit coming down upon him. "
When people dey sleep, im enemy come go plant grass for where the wheat dem dey, e come comot.		While men were sleeping, his enemy came and oversowed weeds in among the wheat and left.
When we understand the things wey they fit guide us for Bible, e go help us know the things wey God want make we do for any matter.		A principle is a fundamental truth or doctrine that is used as a basis of reasoning or action.
Yes o! Our hand self go strong.		Yes, it strengthens our hands too.
You fit dey see am as person wey sabi show love, and e dey think well before e talk or do something.		We may think of him as loving and usually measured in his speech and actions.
But that one for fine soil na people wey them. de endure as them de produce fruit. " - LUKE 8: 15.		As for that on the fine soil, these are the ones who. bear fruit with endurance. " - LUKE 8: 15.
So get the right to tell us wetin we go do.		God cares deeply for us and wants to spare us heartache. - 1 Pet.
Make we take time study Bible, think deep about wetin we de study, and do the things wey we learn. This one go make us de understand the things wey God want make we do. Then we fit dey sure say our conscience go direct us and we go de do the correct thing.		Therefore, by diligently studying the Bible, meditating on what it says, and applying it in our lives, we can train our conscience to be more sensitive to God 's thinking, and it can thus serve as a reliable guide.
For example, papa and mama fit ask elders for congregation for advice about how to conduct their family worship. Dem fit still ask dem how their children go get better friend for the place.		For example, parents may ask elders in the congregation for suggestions on conducting family worship and for help in providing good association for their children.
Because of this one, government come dey look dem as enemy.		Hence, they were persecuted as enemies of the Communist state.
And Jesus talk this thing just after that time wey the people want make e be king.		Interestingly, this conversation took place not long after the occasion when the people wanted to make Jesus king.
How Lucy first feel when people dey talk bad about am?		How did one sister at first react to criticism?
The thing wey the wicked angels do, de teach us which lesson?		What lessons do we learn from the fall of many angels?
Wetin fit help us if we no want make money and property chance God work for our life?		What helps us to fight materialistic desires?
Wetin you don gain as you dey read Bible and dey think about am?		How have you personally benefited from reading God 's Word and meditating on it?
wey ' dey see wetin dey person mind ' come pity Ahab. - Prov.		the examiner of hearts, " extended a measure of mercy to Ahab. - Prov.
Gal. 5: 22 ) If we dey patient, we go get other better character.		Patience involves a number of other vital Christian qualities.
Dey Bless People Wey Dey Find Am		Rewards Those Who Earnestly Seek Him
So, make we de study Bible so that we go see things wey they fit guide us.		By making skilled use of the laws and principles found in God 's Word, we will be " fully competent, completely equipped for every good work. "
True true, four hundred years before e happen, na im put the date wey e go save im people!		Yes, four centuries in advance, set the precise time for the deliverance of his people!
Jas. 2: 21 - 25 ) So even now, Jesus sacrifice fit make us dey righteous for God eye and we fit make God name dey holy.		So even now, the ransom enables us to have a righteous standing with our Father and to share in the sanctification of his name.
And if we no take time, this people character fit spoil our better character.		This presents a challenge for us.
And make you ready to do wetin e talk even when e pain you.		Do so even when it pains you, the parent, to do what says.
Anything wey we dey enjoy, suppose make us rest well and fit get power again.		The purpose of recreation is to refresh and rejuvenate us.
Better greeting need to come from our heart and make e show say we really care, even if e short.		A truly effective greeting, however short, should be sincere and reflect genuine love.
Bible talk sey ' e go make you stand well, and e go make you strong. ' ( 1 Pet.		Draw ever closer to him, for " he will make you firm, he will make you strong. "
Bible talk sey: ' Eli pikin dem bad well well; dem no dey respect. '		We read: " The sons of Eli were wicked men; they had no regard for. "
Boaz really show sey e dey look stranger the way dey look dem from the way e treat Ruth wey come from Moab.		Boaz undoubtedly reflected 's view of strangers in his dealings with Ruth the Moabitess.
But, we need to show sey we value dem. Na so because if we use this things play, we fit no value dem again.		If we are not careful, though, we could lose appreciation for these treasures and, in effect, throw them away.
But Eunice continue to study.		However, Eunice was determined to keep her main focus.
But to fit do am, dem need another knife.		But to cut the cords all at once, they needed one more knife.
But wetin go help us use our freedom well?		How, though, can we avoid misusing our gift of free will?
But what if some things make am hard for us to know where we suppose do reach?		But what about when we are under pressure?
Christine first pioneer for Bolivia before e go Ghana.		Christine served in Bolivia before moving to Ghana.
Circuit overseer and elders go show sey dem remember Governing Body when dem dey do everything wey Governing Body tell dem.		Circuit overseers and elders remember the Governing Body by sticking closely to guidelines given to them.
Dem sey if we don study Bible Teach book with am finish, make we study " Keep Yourselves in God 's Love " with am even though sey e don baptize.		It has been suggested that when we finish studying the Bible Teach book with a progressive student, we study the book " Keep Yourselves in God 's Love " with him, even if he is baptized by that time.
Dem stop the bad things wey dem dey do before and God come ' wash dem clean. '		They left their sinful past and were " washed clean. "
E dey sweet many people to near am because e dey tell dem wetin dey make their mind come down and wetin dey make dem strong.		Multitudes were drawn to him because he calmed troubled hearts, strengthened the weak, and consoled the depressed.
E fit don hard dem small to agree with wetin talk.		This seeming reversal may have tested the faith of Naboth 's family and friends.
E like this work well well because wetin dey im mind na the people wey want learn about.		She enjoyed doing this work because she thought of all those people receiving spiritual food.
E sey: ' To dey put mind for the spirit dey bring life and peace. '		What a result or reward that is - life and peace!
E talk sey: ' Me and my Bible students come be friend and I happy well well as dem come dey follow me serve.		I drew close to my Bible students and felt the deep joy of seeing them become faithful servants of.
God still de show love for the things wey e de do. John talk for Bible say: " Na this one make us know say God love us: E send e special Son come the world so that we fit get life through the Son. "		John wrote: " By this the love of God was revealed in our case, that God sent his only - begotten Son into the world so that we might gain life through him. "
How Bible fit help us support only God Kingdom, even if wahala dey?		How can the Bible help us to remain neutral?
How Bible take dey make us love more?		How does God 's Word deepen our love for him?
How the promise for Hebrews 11: 6 fit help us?		How, though, does the hope of a reward benefit us?
How you fit know sey the kind cloth wey you dey wear dey make God happy?		How can you make sure that your manner of dress will bring glory to God?
I dey wait for the time when I go see am again when go resurrect am. That time, e no go sick again. - Acts 24: 15.		I look forward to seeing him again in renewed health when he is resurrected. - Acts 24: 15.
If brother or sister wey come from another place give you advice, wetin dey first come your mind? You dey quick think sey, ' Our people better pass una people, ' and you no go come do wetin the person talk?		If a brother or a sister from another place gives you a suggestion, do you immediately think, ' We do things better here, ' and then reject it?
If na true sey dey choose the kind problem wey we go face before e happen, that one mean sey e must know everything about our tomorrow.		The idea that God chooses beforehand which trials we will face implies that he must know everything about our future.
If una love unaself, people go know sey una be my disciple. '		By this all will know that you are my disciples - if you have love among yourselves. "
If we get this one for mind, e go mek us do everything wey we fit do to mek sure sey we no miss meeting.		When we think of that, we want to do our best to be at all the meetings.
If we want dey ' happy ' and ' succeed ' we go dey read God Word every day. ( Ps. 1: 1 - 3; read Acts 17: 11. )		To be " happy " and to " succeed, " we must regularly read God 's Word, daily if possible.
If we want make laws for Bible help us, we no go only read, or know them.		In order to benefit from God 's laws, we need to do more than simply read them or become acquainted with them.
If you dey carry body down, e go make you listen to wetin your papa and mama dey talk. And you go still take advice from other brothers and sisters wey get experience. - Read 1 Peter 5: 5, 6.		Humility will allow you to be open to suggestions from your parents and spiritually mature ones in the congregation. - Read 1 Peter 5: 5, 6.
Im husband name na Vladimir. Im and their three children na elder for their congregation.		Her husband, Vladimir, and their three sons all serve as elders.
JEPHTHAH pikin run go meet Jephthah, im papa, when e see am dey come back from war.		A YOUNG woman ran to meet her father.
don support me when my family get problem, when people no want allow me serve, when I feel bad about myself, and when I no happy.		He has sustained me through family difficulties, religious opposition, personal disappointments, and depression.
get sense, na e make e no tell us the real name of that wicked angel.		In his wisdom, has never told us the personal name of the angelic son who rebelled against him.
no dey change.		God is not divided or unpredictable.
use the heavy rain wey fall for Noah time take kill all the bad people.		brought about the Flood of Noah 's day in order to destroy the wicked.
Jesus come still ask dem that same question. ( Matt.		Even our Lord Jesus Christ asked this question when confronted with the faithless attitude of those around him.
Make dem follow us go check our return visit and Bible student.		We can invite new publishers to accompany us when we make return visits and conduct home Bible studies.
Make e talk small about e own story:		Let her tell you a bit about herself:
Many things dey wey dem fit do to support work. Dem fit pioneer, go preach for where publishers no too many, work with Local Design / Construction group, and go School for Kingdom Evangelizers.		There are now many opportunities for them to expand their ministry by pioneering, moving to where the need is greater, working with the Local Design / Construction program, and applying for the School for Kingdom Evangelizers.
Many times, e dey make dem know sey na better work we dey do.		Often, the result is that our activity is seen in a positive way.
Many times wey we dey travel go Balykchy, we dey see many people wey like God message.		After several preaching trips to Balykchy, we discovered widespread interest there.
Maurizio talk sey: ' One time when things hard for me, I make serious mistake. That one make us no be friend again. '		During a difficult time, I made some serious mistakes that caused us to drift apart, " Maurizio explains.
My papa work na to dey use iron make things, and my mama dey do farm work.		My father was a metalworker, and my mother worked in the fields.
Na wetin Hannah do be that.		Hannah poured out her heart to.
Number two, stop to do anything wey dey chop your time and waste your energy.		Second, simplify.
Other things dey wey Satan and the demons no fit do.		Satan and the demons have other limitations.
Peter come where dem put the woman body, e come pray to.		Peter came to where her body was awaiting burial. While near the corpse, Peter prayed.
Plenty people wey they want learn Bible still come our Memorial.		And think of the millions of interested ones whom we welcomed at the Memorial.
Rehoboam no be like King David wey e hold tight as friend		Unlike King David, Rehoboam failed to cultivate a close bond with
Since e don tey wey e sabi how human being dey behave, e no go hard am to deceive us.		He has studied human behavior since man was created.
Since na im dey give life, e go be the Father of everybody wey go resurrect.		As the Source of life, he becomes the Father of everyone who is resurrected.
Some of dem fit dey feel sey dem no get chance to invite people to come enjoy with dem, and dem no get power to do the work wey follow am.		Some may feel that they simply do not have the time or energy to show hospitality.
Some of dem no dey take this work wey we give dem play. E dey make us happy!		It was lovely to see how seriously some of them took their assignment.
The first thing wey Jesus talk for im prayer na make God name dey holy.		Jesus mentioned the sanctification of God 's name as the first request in his model prayer.
The husband fit still sey make the wife no teach the children Bible.		Some husbands may forbid the Christian wife to teach the children from the Bible.
The truth be sey, Job believe sey go remember am when the time reach.		In fact, Job believed that would set a time to remember him.
This one for make am just dey one place dey pity imself. But e no do like that.		Feeling alone and exhausted, she could easily have surrendered to self - pity.
This one go show sey we love and we dey support the way e dey rule.		When we guide our steps, not solely by preference, but primarily by 's thinking and concerns, we show that we love and support his way of ruling.
Today, if we do wetin bad well well for eye, we need to quick do something so that e go forgive us.		To benefit from God 's mercy, repentant wrongdoers today must likewise take action.
Value life because na gift from.		We should respect and treasure the gift of life.
We dey gather together to worship: Because we love and want do wetin e tell us, na im mek we dey always ready to praise am with all our brothers and sisters.		We meet together for worship: We love and want to obey him, so we are eager to praise him along with our brothers.
We fit know some things for Bible and dey always go meeting, but no be only this things go make us near more more. Or e fit be sey we don dey do things wey show sey we dey serve well.		We may have some Bible knowledge and may regularly associate with the Christian congregation, but these things in themselves do not necessarily make us into a spiritual person.
We go decide whether na God we go serve or na Satan we go follow.		Either we remain loyal to or we place ourselves in Satan 's camp.
We no fit get life wey no go end if we no know and " continue to get faith " for Jesus.		The only path to everlasting life involves " coming to know " and " exercising faith " in Jesus, His only - begotten Son.
We no go fit change wetin we promise before we baptize.		There is no way to undo a dedication vow, taking back what we promised God.
Wetin do so that everything fit dey work together well?		How does ensure that all creation functions harmoniously?
Wetin Satan do for garden of Eden show sey e no respect.		Think about how exercised self - control in dealing with Satan 's brazen rebellion.
Wetin be the different kind of love wey husband and wife suppose get for each other?		What kinds of love should marriage mates show?
Wetin happen when Nebuchadnezzar and im soldier come fight war with people for Jerusalem?		Describe the events that occurred at the destruction of Jerusalem.
Wetin we fit learn from wetin Jesus tell Peter?		What can we learn from the words that Jesus spoke to Peter?
When the truth for Bible dey tight for our waist like belt, we go fit follow wetin Bible talk. And e go still help us de talk true everytime.		When Bible truth is wrapped around us tightly, as it were, we will be moved to live in harmony with it and to speak the truth at all times.
Which bad thing come happen?		What went wrong?
E fit be so because them de favor one language pass another.		Prejudice about language may have been a factor.
Many people for Judea de look people from Galilee as nothing.		Many Judeans viewed the people of Galilee as inferior.
If we allow people, or even our brothers, to dey carry things wey we get go put for other website, how e go be? Or what if we allow dem dey use jw.org logo take dey do business?		But if we knowingly allow people, even our brothers, to post our digital content on other sites or to use the jw.org trademark to sell merchandise, the courts may not support our efforts to deter opposers and commercial enterprises.
If we dey open our mouth well, how e fit help us sing well?		How can opening our mouth wider help our singing?
Wetin we go de do to show say we de produce fruit?		We bear fruit by sharing in what activity?
Which chance wicked people still get?		What opportunity is still open to wicked individuals?
Wetin papa and mama fit learn from Daniel papa and mama?		What can parents today learn from Daniel 's parents?
Wetin we go learn for this topic?		What will this article consider?
Which question dem we go talk about for this topic?		What questions will we consider?
When we see the good things wey dey come out of wetin we do, we go dey get more joy. Wetin we do go make belle sweet us and e go make other people happy. - Acts 20: 35; Phil.		When we see the good that this accomplishes, we will grow in joy, experience a greater sense of well - being, and add to the happiness of others. - Acts 20: 35; Phil.
But if congregation wey dey use their language near the place, this question fit come the papa mind: Which congregation go favor my family pass?		But if there is a congregation nearby that uses your mother tongue, the question arises: Which language congregation is best for your family?
How people wey dey your congregation fit help you do wetin God talk about politics and war?		How can the members of your congregation help you to remain neutral?
But just after that one, begin tell us things about this wicked enemy. E still promise us say small time, e go destroy this enemy.		Immediately, began to reveal information about this enemy who had corrupted Adam and Eve, promising that this wicked one would eventually be destroyed.
Acts 5: 42; 17: 17; 20: 20 ) Bible tell elders sey make dem no let anything spoil organization. ( 1 Cor.		God 's own Book directs Christian elders to keep his organization clean.
E clear sey want make we do wetin we fit do to help ourself and other people.		Clearly, wants us to do what we can to benefit ourselves and others.
Bible command us make we love our neighbor but, the first command na to love.		The command to love our neighbor is second only to the command to love.
Which better thing come out from the suffer wey Paul suffer for Philippi?		Even though Paul had suffered an injustice in Philippi, what good resulted because of those events?
After Jesus arrange morning food for dem, e face Simon Peter come ask am sey: ' Simon, John pikin, you love me pass this things? '		After serving them breakfast, Jesus turned to Simon Peter and said: " Simon son of John, do you love me more than these? "
All children no be the same. No be the same time dem take dey understand things.		Of course, each child is unique; not all children become mature at the same rate or at the same point in life.
All of us agree with wetin the person wey write Psalms 119 talk when e sey: ' I love your law well well!		They feel as did the psalmist, who wrote: " How I do love your law!
And e no get anywhere for Bible wey talk sey make person no sew that kind clothe.		Yet, you may know of no specific Bible law that forbids it.
Anyone wey e choose fit make am suffer or enjoy life.		Whichever way he decided, there would be consequences that would affect the rest of his life.
Araceli: Na when I dey Zaragoza I make the first promise wey people wey want be Catholic sister, dey make.		Araceli: While I was in Zaragoza, I took the first vows needed to become a nun.
As e reach market, e come see one fine shoe wey e for like buy, but the shoe cost well well.		She sees a pair of shoes that she would like to have, but they are very expensive.
Because of that one, dem dey feel sey dem no go fit do wetin go make happy again.		Some feel unworthy of serving because they have committed a serious sin.
Brothers and sisters for the whole world happy when dem hear sey dem go do this school for many branch office.		Many around the globe were thrilled to hear that this school would be held in many branches.
But as time dey go, many people wey get hope to live for paradise come dey serve with the people wey dey go heaven. ( Zech.		However, as time progressed, more and more of those with an earthly hope started to join themselves to these spiritual Jews.
But as you dey near, you go dey see how e take dey help you.		But as you grow spiritually, you need to see 's hand in your own life.
But dem come open another scroll; na the scroll of life.		But another scroll was opened; it is the scroll of life.
But e get some things wey make dem never give their life to and baptize.		Yet, for some reason they hold back from dedicating their lives to and getting baptized.
But e good make we dey talk true no matter how e be. - Prov.		Thus, we must tell the truth even if it may be embarrassing or inconvenient. - Prov.
But the truth be sey, the gain wey we dey get if we do wetin want, dey plenty pass any fear wey fit dey our mind.		But as with anything in relation to serving, the benefits and satisfaction that result far outweigh any anxiety.
Dem dey talk sey dem dey serve God, but dem no dey judge matter well or pity people like God.		Sadly, most Pharisees failed to see in such ones what Jesus saw.
Dem fit tell you sey: " Enjoy your life.		People may say to us: " Life is to be enjoyed.
Dem go stay this earth and go show sey e love dem. ( Rom.		s love for his precious children is everlasting.
Dem suffer this brother well well because e no gree leave.		This faithful brother suffered repeated hardships.
Dem write this brochure for English and Spanish. Because of tax law and other law for your country, some things wey dey the brochure fit no concern you.		The information covered in this brochure may not apply fully to your situation because of tax laws or other laws in the country where you reside.
Different different Bible translate " undeserved kindness " as " grace ". One man wey dey put eye for Bible matter well well talk sey undeserved kindness ( favor ) na free gift wey person no suppose get but dem still give am, even if the person no work for the gift.		Regarding the word for " undeserved kindness, " which is translated " grace " in many Bible versions, one scholar wrote: " The whole basic idea of the word is that of a free and undeserved gift, of something given to a man unearned and unmerited. "
E dey talk bad about the elders wey handle im matter, wey make dem come disfellowship am.		He was critical of the elders who had been involved in his disfellowshipping.
E dey worry you sey you don dey old and sey sickness wey dey follow old age fit come?		Are you concerned about getting older and facing health issues that lie ahead of you?
E do everything. ' - Ex.		He did just so. " - Ex.
E get land and house for there, but e dey stay another country. E give brothers im property make dem dey use am do meeting and assembly. E still give people wey dey full - time service place to stay.		A brother from Sri Lanka, now living abroad, has made his property back home available for meetings and assemblies and for housing full - time servants.
E get one house wey I stay, and for this house, better toilet no dey. The only toilet wey dey na one hole wey dem dig for ground.		At one home, the only toilet available was a hole in the ground with two logs across the middle.
E go make peace dey our family and congregation.		At the very least, families and congregations become havens of peace.
E just be like sey Satan dey tell am: ' You mean sey you no fit do wetin you want? '		It was as if he were saying: ' You mean you cannot do what you want? '
E learn how to talk some things for their language. E come dey think about the many Antandroy people wey never hear the good news about God Kingdom.		He learned some expressions in their language and thought about the many Antandroy people who had not yet been reached with the Kingdom message.
E name na Kevin. E talk sey: " When me and my wife just join the new congregation, we start to do auxiliary pioneer. Na that one help us pass.		What aided my wife and me the most was to auxiliary pioneer soon after we arrived in our new congregation, " says Kevin, a Christian elder.
E need to believe sey, when e don repent, go forgive am and help am bear the suffer.		He had to trust that when he truly repented, would forgive him and help him endure the consequences of his actions.
E show sey everything wey dey inside go happen, and gain dey if person follow am. - Matt.		By word and deed, Jesus affirmed that God 's Law was perfect, beneficial, and sure to be fulfilled. - Matt.
Felisa: The time wey I start to serve, my three junior sister come dey give me problem.		Felisa: When I started serving, my three younger sisters were against me.
First, make we expect say Satan go bring us this kind direct attack. ( Rev.		First, we must expect this kind of direct assault - Satan is at war with us.
For example, Judges 5: 20, 21 tell us sey: ' The star dem for heaven fight; dem fight Sisera from where dem dey.		For instance, Judges 5: 20, 21 reports: " From heaven the stars fought; from their orbits they fought against Sisera.
For example, dem dey quick help us when dem see sey we no dey come meeting like before. And if our mind no dey work like before, dem go quick help us.		For instance, if they notice that we are missing meetings or that our zeal is cooling off, they will no doubt quickly come to our aid.
For there, Brother Grant Suiter give one talk wey the topic na " It Is Later Than You Think!		I can still remember his talk, " It Is Later Than You Think! "
For there, Satan talk sey if Job see better suffer, e go leave God. Satan come talk sey make God suffer Job.		There we learn of Satan 's contention that if subjected to intense suffering, Job would reject God.
Go back go check people wey want learn.		Cultivate interest.
Haykanush no gree take the money wey the family give am to take thank am for wetin e do.		The family wanted to give Haykanush some money as a reward, which she declined.
Holy spirit don help Governing Body understand things for Bible wey dem no first understand.		The holy spirit has helped the Governing Body to grasp Scriptural truths not previously understood.
How e take know Jesus?		What connection did he have with Jesus?
Husband and wife wey be special pioneer dey preach for one village wey near the city of Balykchy		A special pioneer couple preach in a remote area near the city of Balykchy
I come happy and belle really sweet me. "		I was content and happy. "
If we really love, we no go only run from things wey we know sey e no like.		In seeking pleasurable activities, do I consider how will view my choices? '
Instead, we dey talk to when we dey pray.		Rather, prayer is real communication with our Creator.
dey patient and e dey sofri wait.		He has been slow to anger and has been just in dealing with Satan 's revolt.
example show sey e dey forgive		Setting the example, is willing to forgive
help David when e dey inside wahala. Na this one make am talk sey make we taste " and see sey good. " E still talk sey: " Person wey trust am go happy. " ( Ps.		Ancient King David, who had been delivered from many grievous trials, expressed these words in song: " Taste and see that is good; happy is the man who takes refuge in him. "
know sey wetin Devil talk about am na lie.		Of course, knows that the Devil 's allegations are false.
people go continue to face wahala until this world wey Satan dey control end.		Until Satan 's world comes to an end, we will continue to experience trials.
really bless us as e see sey we want do more for im work. ( Mal.		saw our desire to expand our ministry, and he opened " the floodgates of the heavens " to us.
King David talk how im mind worry am because of wetin e do. E sey: " When I no talk am come out, my bone come dey dry because na a whole day I dey cry.		King David, who struggled with guilt, put it this way: " When I kept silent, my bones wasted away because of my groaning all day long.
Many people don see sey if dem dey carry body down, e go help dem to dey forgive and no dey carry wetin person do dem for mind.		Many have found that, with humility, they can just forgive and forget.
Matthew and other people wey dey the party wey dem do for Matthew house, hear Jesus as e dey talk. - Matt.		Matthew and others heard Jesus speak at some length during a feast held in Matthew 's home. - Matt.
My load easy to carry, and e no heavy. " ( Matt.		For my yoke is kindly, and my load is light. "
Na 3,948 people come the convention, and 65 people baptize.		A total of 3,948 attended, and 65 got baptized.
Na make all this better things happen.		made all these remarkable changes possible.
Na lie lie!		Propaganda!
Na since 2008 we start to enjoy the Watchtower wey we dey study for meeting. The main people wey we carry for mind write this Watchtower na Witness.		Since 2008 we have enjoyed the study edition of The Watchtower, which is written primarily for 's.
Na to make our hand weak, make we stop to preach the good news about God Kingdom.		It is to cause our hands to slacken in the work of preaching the Kingdom good news.
Na true sey e fit put fear for your body small. One young elder wey im name na Jason, talk sey: " When dem make me elder, I feel sey the work too much for me. "		Jason, a young elder, relates, " When I was first appointed, I felt quite overwhelmed by my new responsibilities. "
Nadine still sey: " Many people wey we dey see for preaching dey like to study Bible.		Says Nadine: " Many people we meet in the preaching work love to study the Bible.
No be only Bible help Ribeiro stop im bad character. E let wetin e read enter im body.		Notice that Ribeiro had to do more than simply study the Bible to succeed in his struggle.
One better way to know our brothers and sisters well na to invite dem to come enjoy with us.		By extending hospitality, we get to know our brothers and sisters in a more personal way than we can in other settings.
People like Daniel and im three friend, no gree let the kind life wey Babylon people dey live mold dem. ( Dan.		Nevertheless, faithful Jews, such as Daniel and his three companions, refused to be molded by the world of Babylon.
Person wey God spirit dey direct dey think about how to do wetin go make God happy.		A spiritual person is inclined toward God, the opposite of the physical person.
Person wey be Jesus disciple go continue to learn wetin dey Bible, even after e don baptize.		After baptism, all disciples should keep on growing in accurate knowledge.
Psalm 118 still talk sey: " The people wey dey build no want the stone.		But how did Psalm 118 point to a resurrection that would occur many years in the future?
So, Gideon and im soldier no stop to pursue Midian people till dem catch dem, come win the fight! - Judges 7: 22; 8: 4, 10, 28.		Therefore, Gideon and his men kept chasing their enemies and finally defeated them! - Judges 7: 22; 8: 4, 10, 28.
So, you think sey e go make sense if people for congregation dey feel sey dem too big to read things wey we write for young people?		Should adult Christians feel that it is demeaning for them to read publications directed to young people?
Some of the area wey I go for central Luzon na, Bulacan, Nueva Ecija, Tarlac, and Zambales.		That included the provinces of Bulacan, Nueva Ecija, Tarlac, and Zambales.
Some people get better work wey go make dem get money well well.		What has the love of God moved some to do?
Some people wey dey make people fear before, don " wear the new character wey God make. " The better life wey dem dey live dey show sey dem get this character. ( Eph.		Rather, formerly fierce people have " put on the new personality that was created according to God 's will in true righteousness and loyalty. "
That time, dem ban our preaching work for Portugal, but we still go even though sey my wife first shock.		At that time, our preaching work was under ban there, but we accepted the assignment despite Mary 's initial shock.
The chance wey give us na to choose better thing, no be to do bad.		However, it does not entitle them to rebel against their Creator and Life - Giver.
The training wey dem give us for Gilead School don really help me near pass before.		The training at Gilead definitely helped me to improve my spirituality.
The truth be sey, I come even dey see money pass when I dey repair computer.		Actually, I was better - off financially than when I worked with computers.
Their marriage fit no be wetin dem get for mind before dem marry.		What if married life proves to be more challenging than expected?
This kind people fit stop the bad things wey dem dey do before and be God friend.		Should we not feel similar compassion for people who could potentially repent over a sinful life course and gain God 's favor?
This one really help make their love for Paul and for each other strong!		How their love for Paul and one another must have deepened!
This one suppose make you believe sey God get power well well, and e no get anything wey e no fit do.		They certainly should convince you that God 's power is vast, unlimited.
This two topic talk about the two things wey Hebrews 11: 1 talk about faith.		These articles examine the two aspects of faith that are described at Hebrews 11: 1.
This work no easy for Joshua at all.		Joshua had every reason to be apprehensive.
To preach for open place, na one fine way to take preach to people.		Public witnessing is one excellent method of spreading the good news.
Today, na only us dey bear God name. Na real blessing be that.		Today, we are blessed to be the only ones on earth called by God 's name.
Today, things fit no easy for you and e fit be like sey the problem don pass your power. But no forget sey, the problem go end one day.		Today, the trials that you face may be overwhelming and painful, but remember that they are only temporary.
True - true, when person put body down and greet other people, e fit open road to talk about serious things.		Yes, a humble greeting can open the way even for a discussion of serious matters.
WHEN one woman want choose wetin e go do, e tell im friend sey: ' No make me think too much; just tell me wetin I go do.		WHEN faced with making a personal choice, one woman told a friend: " Do not make me think; just tell me what to do.
We dey sure because of wetin God talk for Revelation 18: 4. E sey: ' Comot from where e dey, my people. '		God 's command " Get out of her, my people " would be meaningless if no one could ever escape the influence of the world empire of false religion.
We really happy sey we go remain for where we dey preach! '		What a joy to be able to stay in our assignment! "
Wetin go help us stand well for side no matter wetin happen? Na if we remember sey we promise to serve no matter how things be.		To help you stay faithful in any circumstance, never forget that your promise to is unconditional.
Wetin help dem? Na the things wey the elders do for dem, and four of dem try get plan of wetin dem want do for work.		That guidance, along with their own efforts to pursue spiritual goals, helped them to blossom and to avoid being swallowed up by Satan 's system.
When dem travel again, my other pikin, Kimberly come meet one of im work mate wey im name na Brian Llewellyn.		On a later trip, Kimberly met one of his workmates, Brian Llewellyn.
Which work be that? And how use Jesus take help dem do am?		What was that role, and how did through Jesus equip them to fill it?
You dey among dem?		Are you one of them?
You fit learn from wetin Moses do when other people for Israel come dey behave like prophet.		Notice how Moses reacted when certain ones in the camp of Israel began behaving as prophets.
You go need to use everything wey you get.		You need to draw on every available resource.
You gree with wetin Brother George Gangas talk?		Do you also feel that way about worshipping?
Dem write this things to warn us wey dey live for this world wey go soon end. ' - 1 COR.		These things. were written for a warning to us upon whom the ends of the systems of things have come. " - 1 COR.
E good make we dey sing to praise our God. ' - PS.		It is good to sing praises to our God. " - PS.
Another thing be sey, the different different film and music wey dey this world dey make people ' like enjoyment pass God, ' and e dey worse every day. ( 2 Tim.		Also, the entertainment industry has intoxicated people with the ' love of pleasures, ' and the temptations are intensifying year by year.
Some people dey try copy how Witness take dey preach but dem no fit.		From time to time, certain religious groups have tried to do what 's regularly accomplish, but those efforts usually result in failure.
Today, the two group dey serve together as one.		Now both groups serve unitedly under one King - the glorified Jesus Christ, who is prophetically spoken of as God 's " servant David. "
And as we talk before, dem remove firstborn right from Reuben give Joseph.		And as noted, the firstborn 's right was transferred from Reuben to Joseph.
If we do like Israel people wey carry theirself down for, and no stop to dey do like that, go take us as e take Daniel.		When we likewise humbly submit to and make such submission our way of life, he will view us as very precious, just as he did the prophet Daniel.
Even some of dem wey no too see why dem no suppose put hand for the war, still believe wetin one Bible Student Konrad Mrtter talk. E sey: ' E clear from wetin dey Bible sey Christian no suppose kill. ' - Ex.		Though some did not maintain strict neutrality, they still held the fundamental conviction expressed by Bible Student Konrad Mrtter, " I recognized clearly from God 's Word that a Christian should not kill. " - Ex.
Satan come still put one bad sickness for Job body.		Satan next afflicted Job with a painful and repulsive illness.
After we come learn the truth wey dey Bible, we change the way we dey live our life, we tell God for prayer sey we don give am our life, and we come baptize.		Then we came to know Bible truth, made changes in our lives, dedicated ourselves to God, and got baptized.
How things wey they fit guide us for Bible de direct our conscience?		How do 's principles and our conscience interact?
How we go take follow Paul advice?		How can we apply Paul 's counsel today?
Wetin make dem do the new songbook?		What are some of the objectives of the new songbook?
Papa for family fit do like Jehoshaphat. When problem come, make dem tell to help dem and give dem power to take handle the problem.		Those who take the spiritual lead in the family can imitate Jehoshaphat by turning to for guidance and strength to cope with the problem they face.
Jer. 1: 6 ) If na so you dey feel, wetin go help you stop to feel like that, and continue to do more for?		If you have similar feelings, how can you overcome them and keep making progress?
One day when we dey preach for one village, the people for the village come release their dog.		Once, while we were preaching in a rural village, the people turned their dogs loose.
If you follow wetin this Bible verse talk, you go happy as you no carry something for mind do good. - Acts 20: 35.		If you follow this advice, you will gain the reward of happiness that comes from giving with the right motive. - Acts 20: 35.
People wey don leave or other people fit begin talk bad things about organization. Even if wetin dem talk be like sey na true, abeg, ' no let anybody quick change your mind or wetin you dey think. ' ( 2 Thess.		Do not be " quickly shaken from your reason " when faced with what appear to be damaging attacks by apostates or other such deceivers of the mind - however plausible their charges may seem.
After one of im soldier tell am sey Jesus don die, Pilate give Joseph chance to go carry Jesus body.		After ascertaining from an officer that Jesus was dead, Pilate granted the request.
After three years, dem come see sey their pikin wey dey 17 years no dey happy to serve again.		After serving in a foreign - language field for over three years, Serge and his wife, Muriel, noticed that their 17 - year - old son lacked joy in theocratic activities.
All of us need to be like Jacob wey struggle with angel until the angel bless am. ( Gen.		We need to be like Jacob, who did not give up wrestling with an angel until he got a blessing.
And small small, wetin dem talk fit make us no dey follow wetin dey Bible.		Today, we all are exposed to worldly thinking.
And we go dey praise as e dey bless our ' brothers and sisters wey dey everywhere for this world. ' - 1 Pet.		And we will praise as we see how he blesses " the entire association of [ our ] brothers in the world. " - 1 Pet.
Angels help dem to fit direct the preaching work, and dem follow wetin dey Bible for any matter.		With angelic aid, they oversaw the preaching work, and they relied on God 's Word when providing guidance.
As I finish school, I start to pioneer. After one and half year, dem come invite me come Bethel. Na for Bethel I learn how to use different different machine wey dem take dey print.		After a year and a half, I was invited to Bethel, where I learned to operate printing presses and later to do computer programming.
Because of wetin e do, e no come be God friend again. - Gen.		And Cain 's decision affected his relationship with his Creator. - Gen.
Bible talk sey: ' When Baasha hear wetin happen, e no waste time, e stop to build Ramah. E no finish the work wey e start. '		When Baasha heard of it, " the Bible reports, " he immediately quit building Ramah and abandoned his work on it. "
But, like Gaius, we fit support our circuit overseer and im wife wey dey travel come visit us for our congregation.		However, like Gaius, we can in some way support and encourage those who do travel, such as the circuit overseer and his wife.
But Genesis chapter three come tell us sey something happen wey want block wetin get for mind. ( Gen.		As explained in the third chapter of Genesis, 's purpose encountered a challenge.
But if e no listen to wetin dem tell am, and e come dey fly go anywhere wey e like, e fit enter wahala.		However, if the pilot chose to disregard that guidance and fly any route he desired, the result could be disastrous.
But im suffer never end o!		But Rudolf 's trials had still not ended.
But now, because I think about this sacrifice well well, I come see sey really love me. "		But now, at last, by meditating on this gift of the ransom, I began to feel loved by. "
Dem suppose get one mind so that peace go dey. use Paul write sey: ' I dey beg una make una dey do the things wey make God call una. Make una dey carry unaself down, dey gentle, no dey hurry, dey take love bear wetin people do una.		He inspired Paul to write: " I. appeal to you to walk worthily of the calling with which you were called, with all humility and mildness, with patience, putting up with one another in love, earnestly endeavoring to maintain the oneness of the spirit in the uniting bond of peace. "
Dem warn us sey make we no stay for trailer ( small house wey get tire ) because people wey hate us fit put fire. This one come make us dey find house, but we no see.		We had been cautioned to avoid living in a trailer because opposers might set it on fire, so we searched for a home, but in vain.
E fit be sey no be only one time you go follow your brother talk, so that una go settle una quarrel ( Check paragraph 15 )		It may be necessary to reason with your brother more than once in order to gain him ( See paragraph 15 )
E fit no be sey you go get another work quick quick, but e go help you as e take help King David wey talk sey: ' E get the time wey I young and now I don old, but I never see where God leave person wey dey serve am, or sey im pikin come dey beg for food. '		He may not immediately provide you with an ideal job, but he may help you by having you remember King David 's observations: " I was once young and now I am old, but I have not seen anyone righteous abandoned, nor his children looking for food. "
E go make sense if you find time read that place for Bible, and think about wetin you read. Then ask yourself sey: ' Which kind person this prayer show sey Daniel be? '		Why not take a few moments to read that prayer and meditate on it, taking special note of what it tells you about Daniel as a person?
E good make we dey select wetin we dey watch, listen to, or read, so that dem no go make us miss wetin God promise. - Prov.		We need to select forms of entertainment that will not hinder us from keeping our eyes on the prize of life. - Prov.
E sey make we: " Go "!		Jesus said: " Go "!
E still help Job see sey other matter wey serious pass im own, dey ground.		And he helped Job to see that there were greater issues with which to be concerned.
Even King Saul try to kill David because of jealousy.		Also, King Saul became jealous of David 's success and tried to kill him.
Even if.condition hard for us because we no support politics, how we go show sey we get ' sense ' and sey our hand ' clean '?		When it is difficult to remain neutral, how can we be " cautious " yet " innocent "?
Even self, different different style dey come out every day. If to sey Bible tell us the style wey we go sew or how we go dress, by now that one for don be old school.		If the Bible had provided a list of acceptable styles of dress and grooming, it would now be out - of - date in that regard.
Even with that one, e no fight, but " e allow e self suffer " just as Bible talk - am. ( Isa.		Yet, he did not get involved in fights, but " he let himself be afflicted, " just as was foretold.
For dem to pity person wey kill somebody by mistake, e need to quick run go any of the city wey dem build for dem.		An unintentional manslayer had to take action to receive mercy.
For this topic, we go talk about the fine example wey Jephthah and Hannah show wey fit help us do wetin we promise.		This article reminds us of the excellent examples that Jephthah and Hannah set for us as we faithfully strive to fulfill our vows to God.
For where! Upon wetin Job suffer, e no leave God.		Satan 's claim was shown to be completely false.
How apostle Paul take advise Christian about wetin people dey talk?		What loving counsel did the apostle Paul give about worldly thinking?
If we continue to dey use our own language study Bible, we and our family go dey serve well and we go show sey we dey put word for our mind. - Ps.		By regularly studying the Scriptures in the language of our heart, we will maintain our spiritual health and that of our family and we will show that we truly treasure God 's sayings. - Ps.
If we use all our mind serve, e go show sey we love am and we dey keep our promise.		It is a matter of obedience.
If you dey do family worship and personal study every time, you go fit dey do wetin want and you go want help other people.		Regular family worship and personal Bible study will help you to live in harmony with 's standards and will motivate you to help others.
If you no follow am argue and you ready to listen to am, e fit make am listen when you dey talk. - Titus 3: 2.		If you are reasonable and willing to listen, he may be inclined to listen to you. - Titus 3: 2.
Instead of us to dey talk about how government go take comot our problem, mek we show the person from Bible how God Kingdom go comot our problem.		Instead of discussing what humans want to do to solve mankind 's problems, show from the Bible how God 's Kingdom will permanently fix them.
JESUS talk sey Paul na person wey e don choose to carry im name go meet people for plenty country and plenty king.		THIS man is a chosen vessel to me to bear my name to the nations as well as to kings.
no make us to rule ourself.		did not give humans the right to rule over other humans when he created them.
Jesus na God Son, and God love am well well. ( Prov. 8: 22, 30 ) How you think sey e do for body when e see how im Son suffer reach before e die?		Consider, too, that God 's dearly beloved Son - " the one he was especially fond of " - died an agonizing death.
Jesus sey: ' Anybody wey don leave house or brothers or sisters or papa or mama or children or land because of my name, go get am hundred times and e go get life wey no go end. ' ( Matt.		Jesus said: " Everyone who has left houses or brothers or sisters or father or mother or children or lands for the sake of my name will receive a hundred times as much and will inherit everlasting life. "
Land and House: Person fit contribute land or house as gift to Witness branch office for im country.		Gift Annuity: Money or securities donated to an entity used by 's under an arrangement where the donor receives a specified annuity payment every year for life.
Make we ask ourself this question: ' The film, music, game, and picture wey I de look de show say I really love God?		We could ask ourselves: ' Will my choice of entertainment make me seem hypocritical?
Many years after that time, come bring wetin pass the temple wey Solomon build.		Centuries later, set up something far greater than the temple.
Me and my wife for preaching		With my wife in the ministry
Mutsuo and im wife cry as dem dey read the story.		Mutsuo and his wife wept as they read through the experiences.
Na love be the first character wey Paul mention.		The first aspect of the spirit 's fruitage that Paul listed is the precious quality of love.
Na one town, wey be Ho, e dey stay. The town dey Volta area, for Ghana		She lives in the town of Ho in the Volta region of Ghana
Na wetin we go talk about for our next topic be that.		We will discuss that subject in our next study.
Na when person dey put mind to get many many things instead of am to put mind for the things wey God like.		It is a preoccupation with material things rather than spiritual riches.
Name for Bible Wey Dey One Olden Days Pot, Mar.		Adjusting to Your New Congregation, Nov.
People wey get better mind dey happy when dem sabi sey send im Son come this world make e come save us from sin and death. All this one na because love us well well and because of im favor. - 1 John 4: 9, 10.		Honesthearted ones are relieved to learn that, out of his great love and undeserved kindness, sent his Son to earth to ransom us from sin and its consequence, death. - 1 John 4: 9, 10.
People wey know about this matter talk sey: ' For II Samuel, e fit be sey dem no use the name Eshba 'al so that people no go dey think about Canaan people god wey be Ba 'al. But dem write the real name for Book of Chronicles. '		In II Samuel there was apparently reluctance to use the name Eshba 'al, which was reminiscent of the Canaanite storm god Ba 'al, " explain researchers, " but the original name. was preserved in the Book of Chronicles. 
SOMETIMES, dem dey use am.		AT TIMES, yes. Consider one example.
So if Job like, e for marry another wife.		So Job could have taken a second wife had he wanted to.
Some work for like two weeks, some months, one year, and some even work pass one year.		Many of them put their life on hold to serve there.
Sometimes, correction fit pass to only advice person.		At times, though, discipline may involve more than counsel or oral correction.
Stephanie wey come from United States too, don dey reach 30 years.		Some years ago, Stephanie, now in her late 20 ' s and also from the United States, took a close look at her circumstances and thought: ' I 'm in good health and have no family obligations.
That na why John tell Gaius sey make e ' no copy bad thing. ' Wetin John talk still concern all of us today. - 3 John 11.		John therefore told Gaius and, by extension, each of us: " Do not imitate what is bad. " - 3 John 11.
That time dem dey call am zone visit. I dey visit Bethel family and people wey dey do missionary work to use Bible encourage dem.		This involved visiting Bethel families and missionaries worldwide, giving spiritual encouragement, and checking branch office records.
The Law talk say make the people no troway shit anyhow.		The Law required proper disposal of human waste.
The brothers and sisters come contribute money for us and the brother wey help us that time still sell my motor for $ 25.		The brother also sold my car for $ 25.
The girl dey study Bible with Witness, and e carry three orange come give us.		There stood a Bible student who brought us three oranges.
The man look me with bad eye and tell me say, " E dey lock. "		He just glared at me and said, " It 's locked. "
The power wey death get no fit do am anything again. " E " dey live forever and ever " for heaven. - Rom.		In heaven, he lives " forever and ever, " never seeing corruption. - Rom.
Then we use boat travel go Leeward Island and Windward Island. This two Island reach around 500 miles ( 800 km ), from Virgin Island wey near Puerto Rico go nearly reach Trinidad.		After spending a few months preaching on the smaller islands of the Bahamas, we set sail for the Leeward Islands and the Windward Islands, which extend some 500 miles ( 800 km ) from the Virgin Islands near Puerto Rico and stretch almost to Trinidad.
Think about wetin go do to dem.		Consider what will do for mankind.
This two anointed sisters get serious quarrel.		Serious problems arose between these anointed women.
Try know wetin the person believe.		Find out what that person believes.
Two of us na ministerial servant and we dey like to do things together for congregation.		We were both ministerial servants, and we enjoyed working together.
We fit deceive human being, but we no fit deceive.		Such hypocrisy might fool men, but not.
We fit still win our fight with any bad thing wey we dey do.		As we struggle against giving in to our own fleshly weaknesses, we can succeed.
We go talk about five things wey people for this world dey talk, and wetin go make us no believe dem.		We will consider five examples of worldly thinking and discuss how we can reject these ideas.
We learn say, the fruit wey we de produce no be whether people accept the message or they no accept - am.		They help us to understand that our ability to bear fruit does not depend on the response of the people in our territory.
We no dey take dem as oga.		Christians do not exalt such partakers.
Wetin warn the Jews about, and wetin go happen to dem?		What warning of Jerusalem 's impending destruction did give, and what would happen to the Jews?
Wetin Saul come do?		What was the man 's response?
Wetin be the " things " wey Jesus dey talk about?		to what did " these " refer?
Wetin dey Matthew 25: 31 - 33 show sey na Jesus dey judge people.		According to what is stated at Matthew 25: 31 - 33, Jesus is the one who judges people.
Wetin show sey holy spirit help Jesus?		What proved that Jesus was empowered by holy spirit?
Wetin we go gain if we dey think like Jesus?		How will thinking like Christ help us?
What if your wife no be Witness, and you feel sey e no dey respect you?		What if you are a husband and you feel that your unbelieving wife does not respect you?
When I dey young, dem come dey fight war.		War broke out when I was a youth.
When problem come, wetin we suppose get for mind?		When we face problems or are anxious, we can be sure of what?
Whether we stay hotel or any other place for the convention area or even when we dey enjoy our free time, before convention start or after e finish, make we make sure sey we wear cloth wey good for eye.		Even as we check in and out of a hotel, as well as when we enjoy leisure time before and after convention sessions, we want to avoid an appearance that is overly casual or slovenly.
Which question go help us check ourself?		What questions can help us analyze ourselves?
paragraph 9 ) For inside Benefit From Theocratic Ministry School Education, pp. 62 - 64, we go see better way wey we fit talk to people when we dey preach to dem.		paragraph 9 ) Benefit From Theocratic Ministry School Education, pp. 62 - 64, has excellent suggestions on how to converse with people in the field ministry.
This one no mean sey we no fit tell person sey we love am.		Does this mean that we cannot express love through our speech?
But e sweet us sey, ' dey make our mind come down '!		How good it is to know, though, that is " the God of all comfort "!
When Kristina don grow, e talk the matter with im papa and mama. E come join congregation wey dey use the language of their new place.		When she reached adulthood, Kristina discussed the matter with her parents and decided to move to a local - language congregation.
[CONTENT_REMOVED]		See paragraphs 6, 7 )
Paul believe sey love am and e go take care of am. Na im make am fit handle problem for life.		That firm confidence in 's loving care helped Paul to grapple with life 's problems.
So, like Paul, we get plenty reason to talk sey: " I get. hope for God sey people go come back to life. " - Acts 24: 15.		Meanwhile, we have ample reason to say, as did Paul: " I have hope toward God. that there is going to be a resurrection. " - Acts 24: 15.
Jesus no shout for Peter. Instead, e tell im disciples sey God go bless dem as dem fit leave things because of am.		Instead of rebuking Peter for asking that question, Jesus told his disciples that they would be rewarded for their sacrifices.
How we de show say we de make the name of God holy?		In what ways do we sanctify God 's name?
Wetin we learn from Joseph?		What lesson do we learn from what happened to Joseph?
Wetin you fit do to help your student like Bible well well?		How can you help your student to cultivate love for the Bible in his heart?
E fit be say John want know if na different person go do all the things wey Jew people get for mind.		John may have wanted to know whether someone else would fulfill all the hopes of the Jews.
And the good thing be sey, dem dey plenty more more.		What is more, their numbers are growing.
If we dey use better eye look brothers and sisters for congregation, we dey copy example.		We can imitate him by seeing his servants in a positive light.
people come finally comot for fake religion hand. Since that time, because dey favor im people, dem dey understand wetin e want make dem dey do and dem come dey love am more more.		Since that time, by 's undeserved kindness, his people have constantly been growing in knowledge of God 's will and in love for their heavenly Father.
But if we take care of am well, e no go die, e go continue to grow and we go get strong faith. - 2 Thess.		But if we give it due attention, our faith will stay alive and keep " growing, " and we will be " healthy in faith. " - 2 Thess.
After that one, Rehoboam continue to rule the southern kingdom. Na Abijah, e pikin, go rule the kingdom when e die.		Thereafter, Rehoboam continued to reign over the southern kingdom.
And if you dey im side, e mean sey you no dey support the right wey get to rule us.		In fact, he would be happy if you lost out on everlasting life by siding with him in rejecting 's sovereignty.
Another thing be sey, if we know who we suppose praise and where we suppose praise and respect dem reach, we dey help ourself.		On a more personal level, showing honor to those to whom it is due keeps us from becoming self - centered.
As I come dey learn the truth about, I come dey love am well well.		Then I learned the truth about, and I began to love him deeply.
At last I come tell dem sey I want follow priest talk and I come tell the priest wetin happen.		Finally, I said I wanted to talk to a priest, and I told him what had happened.
Bible explain this matter well. ( Lev. 19: 17, 18; Rom.		s own priceless Book is very clear about this.
Bible fit still help you for another way. E fit mek your hope strong well well for wetin God don promise.		The Bible can also strengthen your hope in what God says about the future.
But, the kind problem wey woman dey face when e no fit get belle, no be here! ( Prov.		Neither marriage nor childbearing guarantees freedom from cares, yet an unfulfilled desire for children is in its own way a ' tribulation in the flesh. '
But Bible tell us sey for " midnight, Paul and Silas come dey pray and dem come dey sing dey praise God. " ( Acts 16: 23 - 25 ) Another thing wey give dem joy be sey, dem suffer dem because of Jesus name.		In addition to drawing strength from their hope, Paul and Silas were joyful because they were suffering for the sake of Christ 's name.
But after 13 years, everything come change.		But after 13 years, everything changed very quickly.
But the truth be sey, dem know sey dem suppose comot hand from fake religion. And for World War I, dem don already dey comot their hand finish. - Read Luke 12: 47, 48.		On the contrary, they understood their obligation to separate themselves from false religion, and during World War I, the break with that world empire was almost complete. - Read Luke 12: 47, 48.
Dem advice me and one of their daughter wey im name na Nora, to do pioneer work.		They also encouraged me and their youngest daughter, Nora, to enroll as pioneers.
Dem dey let me sitdown many times, but e no easy to sitdown ontop the wood.		Often they let me, but it was not the most comfortable means of transport.
Dem tell am sey e no go do any work for organization again apart from regular pioneer.		No privileges other than regular pioneering.
Dem want even go back to Egypt go be slave again!		They even wanted to return to Egypt, where they had been slaves!
Dey enjoy funny things.		Keep a sense of humor.
Different different wahala and worry worry fit ' make our hand weak ' as we dey serve God.		Pressures and anxieties can weigh on our mind and cause our hands to drop down figuratively.
E go sweet you to know how the good news about God Kingdom take spread for Kyrgyzstan.		How that message reached Kyrgyzstan and spread here is a thrilling story.
E good make we dey spend time with people wey dey respect God name and dey follow wetin e talk, so that this kind thing no go happen.		To avoid isolation, we need to spend time with others who fear God 's name and respect his standards.
E good make we take am sofri sofri with dem. Make we respect and help brothers and sisters wey dey this kind condition.		Can you patiently and respectfully help brothers and sisters who face such challenges? - Phil.
E really do God work and e follow wetin e learn.		He worked hard in sacred service and applied the lessons he learned.
Even as the place be, dem carry 100,000 prisoner go there from 1947 go reach 1958. Among dem na people wey dey fight government, people wey dem suspect sey dem dey fight government, people wey dey fight government before, and many Witness people.		Yet, from 1947 to 1958, it hosted more than 100,000 prisoners, including active and suspected communists, former resistance fighters, and scores of faithful of.
For 2015 when dem calculate the number of people wey run from their place because of war and suffer, dem see sey e don plenty reach about 65 million people.		By 2015, the number of people displaced from their homes by war or persecution had grown to some 65 million.
For example, Bible no tell us the style wey we go sew or the kind material wey we go use sew am.		For example, the Scriptures do not contain detailed rules regarding what kind of clothing is appropriate attire for Christians.
For one hospital, e take 80 hours preach for just two and half week.		At one facility, she spent 80 hours witnessing in just two and a half weeks.
For the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus talk sey: ' Make una happy and make una mind sweet una well well, because una gain plenty for heaven. Remember sey na so dem still suffer the prophet dem wey dey before una. '		In the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus said: " Rejoice and be overjoyed, since your reward is great in the heavens, for in that way they persecuted the prophets prior to you. "
How I fit use am help another person? '		How can I use it to help others? '
How Jesus sacrifice take make us get freedom?		How does the ransom enable us to be truly free?
How dem take dey ready for this kind work?		How do they prepare themselves for this type of service?
How many promise you don promise?		How many vows have you made to?
How young people and their mama and papa fit show sey dem get strong mind?		How can young ones and their parents show courage?
I become regular pioneer for January 1, 1956.		I began serving as a full - time pioneer on January 1, 1956.
I dey 12 years when I baptize for 1941.		I was baptized in 1941 at the age of 12.
If we dey pray and think about wetin we read, e go move us to change anything for our life wey we no dey do well.		As we prayerfully meditate on God 's Word, we will feel motivated to apply its counsel even more fully.
Informant come still talk another thing, sey: " We need a pioneer army of 1,000 ( We need plenty pioneer wey go reach 1,000 ). "		The Informant also issued this fresh appeal: " We need a pioneer army of 1,000. "
no make us like robot. But e give us power to choose wetin we go do.		has given us the peerless gift of free will.
promise dem sey e go help dem serve am well again. But e still let dem know sey dem must use all their mind serve am.		He lovingly assured them that he would help them to reestablish pure worship, but he also firmly warned them that he would not tolerate halfhearted worship.
Jesus promise im apostles sey dem go rule with am for heaven.		Jesus assured his faithful apostles that they would rule with him in heaven.
Jesus talk say e disciples na brothers and sisters because they take as their Papa. ( Matt.		Jesus explained that his disciples were brothers and sisters because they recognized as their heavenly Father.
Later, dem come send us go south London.		In time, we were reassigned to south London.
Make we dey do like that!		Seek opportunities to do so!
Make we learn three things wey go help us sabi how take dey do this work: ( 1 ) How e dey choose who e go mold, ( 2 ) why e dey mold people and ( 3 ) how e dey mold dem.		To help us in that regard, let us consider three aspects of 's work as our Potter: How he chooses those whom he molds, why he molds them, and how he does so.
Many people wey Jesus call ' other sheep, ' dey wait for the paradise wey God go give dem for earth where dem go get life wey no go end.		Millions of Jesus ' " other sheep " eagerly anticipate the future reward of everlasting life on a paradise earth.
Na January 2001 Brother Marais call me from Patterson wey dey New York, as I don talk before for up.		In January 2001, I received the phone call mentioned at the outset.
Na im make many people think sey before person fit make am, e go ready to do anything even if e mean sey e go overdo.		In doing so, they may sacrifice all modesty.
Na im mek e come talk sey: ' Mek una no fear!		He said: " Take courage!
Na only Witness people! ' - Read John 13: 35.		Only 's! " - Read John 13: 35.
Now, after two years, I dey write to tell una sey I don be una Christian sister. "		After two years, I am writing back as your Christian sister. "
People dey talk sey: " We go fit solve our problem by ourself. "		Humans can solve their own problems.
People for your work fit dey take you do yeye because you dey use some of your time go meeting or preaching.		Or colleagues at work may taunt you for taking days off for spiritual activities or for not often working overtime.
Plenty village wey people fit catch fish dey Trinidad and Tobago area.		There are many fishing villages along the coasts of Trinidad and Tobago.
Problem come dey the first marriage because Adam and Eve no do wetin talk.		The first marriage was struck with calamity because both Adam and Eve chose to misuse their free will by disobeying.
Some of dem wey don old tell dem how Jerusalem and the temple fine before.		The oldest ones among them had seen the former glory of the temple.
Some of the problem fit be jealousy, if person leave im husband or wife go dey follow another person and if husband dey suspect im wife.		Unfaithfulness, jealousy, and suspicions were dealt with appropriately.
That time, na only 22 years I dey but this new assignment make me fit ' be everything to everybody ' for different different way.		I was only 22 years old, but this assignment gave me the opportunity to " become all things to people of all sorts " in new ways.
The part of Bible wey dem use Hebrew write, and the part wey dem use Greek write, sey make children dey obey their papa and mama. - Ex.		Both the Hebrew Scriptures and the Christian Greek Scriptures admonish children to honor their parents. - Ex.
The second topic talk about how we fit make our faith dey strong if we believe sey dey bless people wey try use all their mind find am.		The second article explains how we can strengthen our faith by being firmly convinced that God rewards those who earnestly seek him.
The talk come mek Gavin mind finally come down. E come gree to study Bible.		These conversations refreshed Gavin, and he finally accepted a Bible study.
The thing be sey: When you dey teach your pikin, no dey talk one word plenty times because e go make the pikin tire.		The point is this: When teaching your children, do not get into a rut.
Things no really easy for dem that time.		And they lived at a critical time.
This man wey live before give Israel people the Law and before Jesus die for our sin, na person wey get faith.		That man of faith lived before gave the Law to Israel and long before Jesus died for our sins.
This one dey make am hard to fight this kind army.		Who would dare approach such a frightening war machine?
This one really show say we de make our light shine!		This certainly indicates that God 's servants are letting their light shine!
This slave na small group of people wey God choose from inside the people wey dey go rule with Jesus for heaven and na dem go direct the work. ( Matt.		First, he referred to " the faithful and discreet slave, " the small group of anointed brothers who would take the lead.
This two topic go talk wetin freedom really be, how we go take get am, and how we go take use our freedom well make we and other people gain.		These two articles will consider what true freedom is, how we can attain it, and how to use our relative freedom now to benefit ourselves and others.
Twenty five years don pass now, and na this message I don de preach. "		For the last 25 years, that is the message I have been preaching. "
Uriah no gree do wetin David tell am; so David make dem put Uriah for where dem go kill am for the war.		Uriah would not do what the king suggested, so David arranged to have him killed in battle.
We don see how love us reach because of the special gift wey e give us - e send im Pikin make e come die for our sin.		Love moved God to offer us a precious gift - the ransom sacrifice of his beloved Son.
We fit get true peace when we de obey with all our heart. - Isa.		We can find true inner peace by obeying from the heart. - Isa.
We fit see am from wetin Bible talk about deep sense and good sense.		We can see this from what the Bible says about discernment and wisdom.
We fit still show sey we dey side, when we dey face small small problem everyday.		Of course, we want to stay focused on 's sovereignty also in the face of day - to - day pressures and inconveniences.
We go fit praise if we dey tell people sey all the things wey we go enjoy for the new world, na because of favor.		We can do this by showing people that all the promises of new world blessings are expressions of 's wonderful kindness.
We go talk about that one for another " Better Story About Us Wey Don Happen. " - Better story about us for Central Europe ( From our archives in Central Europe. )		But that is quite a different chapter for a future segment of the series " From Our Archives. " - From our archives in Central Europe.
Wetin promise us wey dey make our mind come down?		Why are 's promises a source of great comfort?
Wetin fit help you when you dey tell other people about God and the things wey e make?		What outlook will help you when you discuss God and creation with others?
Wetin go happen if we follow Paul example?		What is the outcome if we maintain a spiritual focus?
When the war end, e do pioneer work for many years.		After the war, he served as a zealous pioneer for many years.
Which people example we go talk about for this topic and the next topic?		What examples will we consider in this article and in the next?
Why we dey do this work?		What, then, is our motive for doing this work?
Why we dey sure sey Jesus fit make our mind come down?		Why can we be confident that Jesus will provide comfort?
You think sey this one mean sey we fit do anything wey we like or sey wetin we do no concern?		Does this mean that it does not matter to what we choose to do when we face the challenge of making important decisions, some of which might have a profound effect on our life?
take dey show am wetin Bible talk		to draw his attention to God 's Word
Make una continue to dey ask, and una go get ' wetin una want. - Luke 11: 9.		Keep on asking, and it will be given you. " - Luke 11: 9.
Because e no dey tight hand, e dey teach people truth.		As a generous Father, he shares divine truths with those who fear him.
[CONTENT_REMOVED]		See paragraph 19 )
But because we no dey too get chance to fit read all of dem, e get something wey fit happen.		Realistically, we may not always be able to give equal attention to all the spiritual food available to us.
God go bless us with wetin pass the things wey we lose because we want do wetin Bible talk and we dey use love dey settle quarrel.		God will never allow his servants to suffer lasting loss for acting in harmony with divine principles and settling differences in a spirit of love.
So any time when we go meeting as e talk, we dey let am know sey we love am.		does not force us to do as he says.
As we dey near the end of this world, now no be the time to dey gather plenty property for ourself.		As we near the end of this system of things, now is not the time to amass more and more material things for ourselves.
Peter really mean wetin e talk.		Peter certainly lived up to his word.
Because of that one, people wey no well dey gather for where the water dey.		As a result, people seeking a cure congregated at the site.
So even as we get sin for body, we de try our best make we no de lie.		So to the best of our imperfect ability, we avoid telling lies.
As time dey go, dem fit allow am to do the work wey e dey do before for congregation.		In time, privileges may be restored.
Wetin fit make am hard to follow Jesus?		When would it be especially challenging to follow Jesus?
Which two character go help us copy how take dey judge matter?		What two qualities will we consider in this article?
Wetin some papa and mama think?		What have some parents concluded?
So because of the favor wey give us we get plenty work to do. We go dey preach well well, dey teach people Bible, dey help our brothers and sisters and to dey forgive anybody wey do wetin we no like.		The undeserved kindness that extends to us puts us under obligation to busy ourselves in the Christian ministry, to teach the Bible to others, to encourage fellow Christians, and to forgive any who may offend us.
No Stop to Get Love		Do Not Let Your Love Grow Cold
Ezek. 5: 11 ) go soon destroy bad people. ( 2 Thess.		The time is coming when he will execute judgment on all those who refuse to obey him.
E still help us remember why we suppose dey preach now.		We are also reminded of the importance of the preaching work in our day.
Tell People the Good News About God Favor		Spread the Good News of Undeserved Kindness
So, if we know wetin ' better sense ' be and how to use am, e go help us stand well for side, we no go fall.		This helps us to avoid stumbling spiritually, keeping our " foot " stable.
Story About People Life - Dey Bless People Wey Do Wetin E Want		Life Story - Blessings Come From Doing What Asks
Wetin tell Israel people the time wey dem reach the Land wey God promise dem?		What command did give the Israelites when they entered the Promised Land?
Their faith need to strong pass as e be and dem need to trust.		They needed stronger faith and trust in.
After one year, I come go pioneer for Ghana. "		One year later, I moved to Ghana to serve there as a pioneer. "
And e no surprise us sey e like am!		And no wonder!
And make you follow the advice wey dey Ecclesiastes 12: 1.		[CONTENT_REMOVED]
And we no too get money. So, how we take manage?		Our personal means were limited, so how did we manage?
Another thing be sey, when dem build am finish, e go be house.		More important, the temple would be " the house of the true God. "
Apart from government, how Satan de use fake religion and the business of this world?		How does Satan use not only governments but also false religion and the commercial system?
As we accept wetin we de learn, e make them happy.		To their joy, they noticed that our heart was receptive to the seedlike Kingdom message.
Bible talk say: " The leaders for Israel and the king, humble theirself. They talk say: ' dey righteous. ' "		The Bible reports: " The princes of Israel and the king humbled themselves and said: ' is righteous. ' "
Bible tell husband sey make dem ' dey sabi how dem suppose live with their wife. ' ( 1 Pet.		Husbands are told to deal with their wives " according to knowledge. "
But around 1941, we come know sey e no good to work for where dem dey make things wey dem take dey fight war.		By 1941 we were becoming aware that we should not work in the arms industry.
But na only problem or enemy wey dey come from another government dem go fit see.		However, such " watchmen " can perceive only those threats that come from man - made governments or humans.
But the better thing be sey, dem no go dey for their hand forever.		The good news, though, is that they would not remain in that condition indefinitely.
But the other brother tell am sey the sister don dey serve well for 40 years, even though e don suffer many many things. E tell the brother sey e no sure sey the sister really want make am vex.		However, the other brother reminded him that she had served loyally in difficult circumstances for 40 years; he was sure that she meant no harm.
But we still need to answer this question dem: Which other thing make us know sey God people don dey comot from fake religion hand, even before 1914?		However, a number of questions arise: What additional evidence is there that in the decades leading up to 1914, the anointed were actually breaking free from Babylon the Great, no longer being enslaved by her?
Dem start to trouble Witness people.		Despite opposition, fearless brothers and sisters kept taking to the streets.
E clear sey, the brothers no ready to do anything wey go make vex!		Clearly, the brothers had no intention of compromising!
E fit be small chop chop ( snacks ) or food: For Bible time, one way wey people take dey do good na to invite person to come chop for their house. ( Gen. 18: 1 - 8; Judg.		For refreshments or a meal: In Bible times, hospitality normally included inviting someone to one 's home for a meal.
E get the mind sey this leaders go start to teach their church members this truth from Bible.		The clergymen were not interested.
E go make happy, and your better character fit make your husband start to serve. This one go make wetin God promise reach una hand. - Read 1 Peter 3: 1, 2.		But if you show respect for your husband 's headship, you can contribute to peace in the family, you will praise, and you may even win your husband over to true worship; thus you both may gain the prize. - Read 1 Peter 3: 1, 2.
E good to always think about the better things wey dey do for us. E go make us dey sure sey the way dey rule us, na im better pass.		Frequent meditation on 's goodness can strengthen our conviction that his rulership is best.
E hard to really know how life go sweet reach that time.		It is not easy to imagine.
E no dey think about how God go feel, wetin God law talk, or sey e go spoil God name.		He minimizes God 's law, disregarding and His name as being of no force or importance.
E no do the bad things wey people wey dey around am dey do.		He chose not to be influenced by the people around him.
Even people wey no like us gree sey this one na true.		Even some opposers acknowledge this fact.
Everything wey God make show sey nobody fit arrange things like am.		Creation proves that God is the incomparable Organizer.
Explain. What of Satan?		Satan has created nothing.
For many years David no get house to stay, e dey stay for anywhere wey e see. After, e come dey stay for better house when e don be king.		After residing for years as a fugitive, David became king and lived in a comfortable house.
For this topic, ' refugee ' na people wey run comot from where dem dey stay because of war, heavy breeze or rain wey scatter their property, or other people wey dey suffer dem. This one fit make dem run go another place for their country or outside their country.		In this article, we use the term " refugees " to denote those who have been displaced - whether across national borders or within their own country - by armed conflict, persecution, or disaster.
From the time when Adam and Eve start to dey born children, people learn about from: ( 1 ) the things wey e make, ( 2 ) other people wey dey serve am, and ( 3 ) when dem see how take bless dem because dem do wetin e talk. ( Isa. 48: 18 ) Noah settle down look the things wey God make.		Since early in human history, men and women of faith have learned about God in three primary ways: by observing the visible creation, from other God - fearing humans, and by experiencing the blessings of living in harmony with God 's righteous standards and principles.
George Gangas, na Governing Body member before. E pass 22 years wey e take serve. E talk sey: " Our meeting na one thing wey dey make me happy pass for life and e dey make me strong.		George Gangas, who was a member of the Governing Body for over 22 years, said: " To me, meeting with the brothers is one of life 's greatest pleasures and a source of encouragement.
Gianni come talk im own, e sey: ' Na Maurizio study Bible with me.		Gianni adds: " Maurizio was my Bible teacher when I started studying.
God no want mek we change where we come from.		He does not want us to give up our culture.
Governing Body dey use the money wey people dey contribute well. ( Matt. 24: 45 ) Dem dey pray before dem choose wetin dem want do.		With prayerful consideration, the Governing Body strives to be faithful and discreet with regard to how the organization 's funds are used.
How person wey dey serve fit come dey ' put im mind for the flesh '?		How might a Christian begin to ' set his mind on the flesh '?
How we fit talk wetin go touch people mind, if we dey talk about Bible or how God take make things?		What is an effective way to discuss creation or the Bible with fellow students, teachers, or others?
How we go take know the kind thing wey God want?		In the absence of a direct Bible law, how can we perceive the will of God?
How you feel when you come see sey you no even need am?		Did you later realize that you could have lived the rest of your life without it?
I come beg well well sey make e help me do wetin I get for mind. '		I fervently prayed to to help me to act. "
I no dey quick wake up for morning, but e dey quick wake.		I liked to sleep late each morning; she liked to get up early.
If Naboth family and friend dem dey carry body down, how e go take help dem?		Why would humility have been a protection to Naboth 's family and friends?
Joseph control imself when e dey work for Potiphar. Na Potiphar be the oga of people wey dey guide Pharaoh.		He showed restraint when he was serving in the house of Potiphar, the chief of Pharaoh 's guards.
Make we see this example.		Let us consider this second illustration.
Many Christian that time no do like the Jew people. Instead, dem continue to ' preach the good news about Jesus. ' Dem continue to show sey dem love God, other Christians, and people wey no be Christian.		On the other hand, most Christians at that time kept busy " declaring the good news about the Christ " and showing love for God, for fellow Christians, and for unbelievers.
Many people wey dey serve don see sey better thing dey come out, when dem tell elders the bad thing wey dem do. This one don give the elders chance to help dem.		Many of God 's servants have discovered the relief that comes from seeking and receiving help from the elders.
Maria Victoria like to do amebo.		Maria Victoria loved to gossip.
Na from small pikin Timothy know the first part of the Bible wey dem use Hebrew write.		Timothy knew the Hebrew Scriptures from infancy.
Na to just to know sey go bless us?		Is it limited to a mental grasp of the blessings that God has in store for us?
Na when we learn the correct thing about God we fit get real faith.		Genuine faith is based on accurate knowledge about God.
Nabal and im family go suffer for this mumu thing wey e do. - 1 Sam.		Nabal and his household would pay for his stupidity. - 1 Sam.
One, sey wetin dey Bible fit make peace dey and make people dey do things together.		First, God 's standards promote genuine peace and harmony.
One husband and wife for United States help their children serve.		A couple in the United States helped their children set spiritual goals.
One reason why arrange make we dey go meeting every time na because, we dey hear better word wey dey make us strong for there.		One reason why our heavenly Father has kindly arranged for us to have regular meetings is that we can give and receive encouragement there.
Prayer and God holy spirit fit give you power to do the correct thing wey go bless.		Prayer and holy spirit can give you energy to pursue the course that you know to be right and that can bless.
Remember sey the day wey you want baptize, dem ask you this question: " You sabi sey as you don give your life and you want baptize, e show sey you go be one of Witness people wey dey the organization wey God spirit dey control? "		Recall that on your baptism day, before eyewitnesses, you were asked whether you had dedicated yourself to and understood that " your dedication and baptism identify you as one of 's in association with God 's spirit - directed organization. "
So make we no fear to pray loud just because Satan fit hear.		Likewise, we should not be afraid to pray out loud just because the Devil might hear us.
Solomon go don learn how to get strong mind from David, im papa.		Solomon likely learned much about courage from his own father.
Sometimes, your husband or wife wey no dey serve fit want teach una pikin wetin no dey Bible. E fit want make dem do things like Christmas, or New Year.		At times, unbelieving mates will demand that children share in pagan celebrations or be taught false religious beliefs.
The people for their time dey put hand for sex matter wey bad for God eye, and katakata full everywhere.		Yet, they kept free from being entangled in the desires and pursuits of the people around them.
The sister sey: " I dey fear to go place wey I no know.		She explains: " I feared going into the unknown.
The truth be sey, if we scratch our body as e take scratch us, e go peel. - Prov.		Many of us have lived to regret hasty words or rash actions! - Prov.
This picture no comot for my mind. " ( Isa.		Such pictures made a lasting impression on me. "
This thing happen for 1959 when I dey prison for Irkutsk city for Russia.		That exchange took place in 1959 in a prison in the city of Irkutsk in Russia.
To get as our one and only God, we go worship only am.		To have as our one and only God, we should give him our exclusive devotion.
We no dey only pray to to ask am for something.		Prayer offers you the opportunity to do more than simply ask for help.
Wetin Jesus dey talk about?		To what was Jesus referring?
Wetin Jesus trust im disciples sey dem fit do, and wetin e train dem to do?		What confidence did Jesus have in his disciples, and for what did he train them?
Wetin children go do so that dem no go dey copy people wey no dey obey their papa and mama?		Children can protect themselves from being infected with the spirit of disobedience by reflecting on what their parents have done for them.
Wetin fit happen if we make friend with bad people?		How can bad association affect our whole life?
Wetin we go do make the way we de use Bible better pass before?		How can we improve our skills in using God 's Word?
Wetin we need to do if we want make Bible continue to change us? Which question we fit ask?		What must we do to keep making changes with the help of the Bible, and what questions might we ask?
What about the many children wey dey follow their papa and mama go another country?		What about the many children who arrive with their parents, both refugees and other immigrants?
Who fit rule us well? Na, or na another person? Na this matter suppose dey everybody mind.		As stated, the vindication of 's sovereignty is a vital issue involving mankind.
Why e good make we love God?		Why must we have love for God?
Why people wey don dey serve God tey tey need word wey go make dem strong?		Why do experienced servants of God need encouragement?
You fit no like the person, and you fit continue to feel like that if you no do something.		Your initial feelings about that person may be negative and can become long - lasting if nothing is done to improve them.
Like Jesus, we dey help people know and serve am. This one na really better work wey the God of freedom don give us. ( Matt.		It is our privilege to follow Jesus ' example of helping people to come to know and worship, the God of freedom.
The third thing be sey, Bible help this brothers wey dey direct.		Third, God 's Word guided the governing body.
But, make we be like Jeremiah wey talk sey: ' na my share.		But with the strengthening power of God 's holy spirit, each of us is determined to echo the words of Jeremiah: " is my share.
How Bible study go take help you control yourself?		How is it that Bible study can help you to cultivate self - control?
E go make sense to think sey before bad thing happen, God don choose who go die and who no go die?		Is it not unreasonable to think that God would determine in advance who lives and who dies as a result of random events?
How David come behave?		When that happened, how did David react?
If we want know how dey think, and how e dey see something, we need to think about wetin we don read.		We want 's mind on matters, which includes grasping Bible principles.
But no be so the people wey dey teach the Law that time be. Dem ready to trowey wetin dey Bible if e no match wetin dem dey do.		In contrast, the religious leaders of that time disregarded God 's Word whenever it contradicted their own traditions.
The message wey we dey preach na one of the things wey don bring, so that people wey truth dey hungry go get life.		The message we preach is part of 's provision to give life to those who thirst for the truth.
We no surprise say love dey important because Bible tell us say " God na love. "		This emphasis on love is not surprising, since the Bible tells us that " God is love. "
When brother or sister for congregation no treat us well, make we see am as chance to take near more more. And make we look the matter the way go look am.		Instead, if we experience injustice at the hands of a fellow worshipper, let us be like Joseph and draw even closer to, striving to have his view of matters.
Na only really sabi us well.		He is the only one who fully understands our situation, our feelings, and our background.
Which kind eye take look Daniel?		How did view Daniel?
Which advice Bible give servant wey im husband or wife no dey serve?		What counsel does the Bible give Christian wives whose husbands are not servants of God?
Na im make dem praise because of the big things wey e help dem do.		As a result, rightly received praise for those mighty acts.
And make we no forget the number one reason why Satan de give us problem. E talk say we de serve God only when things dey fine.		Then, we need to see the bigger issue behind such incidents - Satan claims that we serve only when it is convenient.
John write sey: ' This na wetin [ God ] command: sey make we get faith for the Son name wey be Jesus Christ and love ourself. ' - 1 John 3: 23.		John wrote: " This is [ God 's ] commandment: that we have faith in the name of his Son Jesus Christ and love one another. " - 1 John 3: 23.
And when Israel people obey, e bless dem. E arrange dem well, give dem peace, and one mind. - Deut.		And when they obeyed, the Israelites were blessed with order, peace, and unity. - Deut.
Why people never fit find answer to all this many better question?		Why are there so many important but unanswered questions?
Before Joshua start this work, tell am sey: " I don tell you sey make you get strong mind.		Before Joshua went into action, encouraged him, saying: " Have I not commanded you? Be courageous and strong.
Since all of us dey make mistake, e good make we continue to check ourself to know where we need to do well.		Since we are not perfect, we all need to continue making changes.
As seed no fit use one day grow, na so faith be. E dey take time before e grow.		Like literal fruit, faith takes time to grow.
After, sleep come carry Sisera because the fight make am weak.		Exhausted from battle, he fell asleep.
After Adam and Eve don sin, give some of the cherub new work to do for this earth.		After Adam and Eve sinned, gave some of the cherubs a new assignment on the earth.
All of us go need to really check wetin dey our heart.		Each of us can make a sincere self - analysis.
And see!		And look!
Another person wey encourage the brothers and sisters na apostle Paul.		In the first century, perhaps the apostle who did the most to encourage his brothers was the apostle Paul.
Another soldier come still give me im own food.		Then another soldier gave me his rations.
Anytime wey dem dey do something like that, dem dey drive me and my senior sister, Dorothy, from class.		My eldest sister, Dorothy, and I were dismissed from the classroom during these sessions.
As dem dey believe wetin dem dey learn, dem go fit dey preach to people, like their classmate, about wetin dem believe. ( 1 Pet.		As they become convinced of what they learn, they will increasingly be able to defend their beliefs before others, including schoolmates.
As we de preach, we de tell people about the peace wey the Kingdom of God go bring, and wetin they fit do to enjoy that peace.		By means of our field ministry, we invite people to benefit from our peaceful message about the Kingdom of God.
At last, they tell me say they go give me work.		They finally told me that they were going to hire me.
Because one drop of water no be anything, but if e come plenty well well the whole ground go soak.		Individual drops of water help very little, but when there are millions of dewdrops, the ground is filled with moisture.
Big work wey dey bring plenty money dey make people drag for position, e dey cause jealousy, and e dey make people hate each other.		Moreover, the spirit of this world is intensely competitive.
But, Cain no choose well.		You know what Cain decided; he did not choose well.
But I see sey e no happy, because e be like sey, e no get the mind to change.		But it seems that he did not have the courage to change.
But make we dey put body for the preaching work. - Matt.		Similarly, love for and our neighbor moves us not only to ask God ' to send out workers into the harvest ' but also to have a full share in the preaching work. - Matt.
But na the angel dem go direct this work.		Instead, the execution of judgment would be directed by the angels.
But remember sey the things wey Paul do dey important pass how e body be.		Bear in mind, though, that other things are more significant than Paul 's appearance.
Dem come throw am, but dem no fit drag am enter the boat because the fish plenty well well. ' - John 21: 1 - 6.		So they cast it, but they were not able to haul it in because of the large number of fish. " - John 21: 1 - 6.
Dem go get their own before dem die or before great tribulation start. - Rev.		Instead, they will receive their final sealing either before they die or before the outbreak of the great tribulation. - Rev.
E dey hard this kind people to put God work as number one thing for their life.		Fleshly - minded people have difficulty cultivating a balanced view of material things.
E fit start to do things wey only im no dey do before, like when e go assembly or Memorial. When e remember, e dey really pain am no be small.		Many things a bereaved marriage mate does alone for the first time - such as attending an assembly or the Memorial - can be particularly painful.
E get the time wey we no come dey serve well as we suppose to.		Through the years, there were times when our spirituality weakened.
E really good make papa and mama follow wetin Bible talk when dem dey train their children.		How important, then, that Christian parents look to for guidance.
E tell Jesus say: " If you bow down and worship me just one time, everything go be your own. "		Satan suggested that if Jesus would do one act of worship, he could have it all and have it right then.
E use all im life serve, and help am.		He served God loyally for many decades, and supported him.
E use five month take preach round. E carry blanket, food, cloth and many book put for im bicycle dey go.		On his heavy - laden bicycle, he carried blankets, clothing, food, and a large number of books.
Even after Job suffer don end, e go continue to use the advice wey God give am.		s counsel would continue to benefit Job even after his trials were over.
Even though sey their house no too fine, e dey always clean.		Even though the homes were simple, they were always clean.
For all that years, we don learn plenty things and e make us strong.		They were rich, rewarding years, full of encouraging experiences.
For all the 58 years wey me and Maxine dey Puerto Rico, we see how people just dey plenty dey go, from around 650 go reach 26,000!		During our 58 years together, Maxine and I saw 's people in Puerto Rico grow from about 650 to 26,000!
For example, John explain sey: ' The person wey dey show sey e get faith for the Son get life wey no go end; the person wey dey do wetin the Son no like no go see life, but God go always dey vex with am. '		For example, John explained: " The one who exercises faith in the Son has everlasting life; the one who disobeys the Son will not see life, but the wrath of God remains upon him. "
For example, one brother for Thailand talk sey: ' My work na to repair computer. I like the work well well, but I dey use too much time do the work.		For example, a brother in Thailand related: " My secular work of repairing computers was very interesting, but it involved working long hours.
For only last year, we conduct pass 10,000,000 Bible study.		Last year we regularly conducted over 10,000,000 Bible studies.
For the country dem get pass 300 deaf publisher and people wey dey study Bible. So dem join one sign language congregation to help some of dem.		They assist a sign - language congregation to help some of the more than 300 deaf publishers and interested ones in the country.
For this one, person fit use internet, ATM card or im phone take send money.		Donations via electronic bank transfer, debit card, credit card, or mobile money transfer.
For tree to grow well, e need water everytime. Na so e still be if person want be God tight friend.		Just as a tree must regularly draw from a water source to remain healthy, a Christian must regularly feed on God 's Word to remain spiritually strong.
How we take know?		How can we be sure of this?
I remember wetin my mama talk.		I remember her answer: " Son, it 's a mystery.
I still stop to do things like Christmas, and school fellowship.		I also withdrew from taking part in holiday celebrations and from attending mandatory church services.
If person invite us and we agree to go, make we no change mind unless serious thing happen.		If we have accepted an invitation, we should try to be true to our word.
If some people talk sey some law wey government put no good or sey mek dem change am, we no go join any side and we no go try force the person mek e change im mind.		If someone says that certain laws should be removed or changed, we do not take sides, and we do not insist that the person change his opinion.
If the things wey we de talk and do match with the things wey God want, e go hard make Satan catch us with e trap. - 1 John 3: 18.		The more our speech and actions harmonize, the less likely we are to be caught in Satan 's snares. - 1 John 3: 18.
Im name na Dr.		Dr.
no only know you. E still understand how body dey do you when you dey problem. And e get the power to help you.		Not only is interested in you as a person but he also has the power and empathy needed to help you with life 's problems.
Jephthah pikin happy well well sey im papa no die for the war.		She was very happy to see him come back safely from fighting a battle.
Joseph sey: ' How I go do this kind bad thing wey be sin for God eye? ' - Gen. 39: 6, 9; read Proverbs 1: 10.		He reasoned: " How could I commit this great badness and actually sin against God? " - Gen. 39: 6, 9; read Proverbs 1: 10.
Like person wey sabi mold well well, know how the clay wey e want use be and e dey carry this one for mind as e dey mold.		Like a highly skilled potter, knows the type and quality of " the clay " that is before him, and he molds it accordingly.
Malachi 3: 1 - 3 talk about wetin happen from 1914 go reach beginning of 1919.		Malachi 3: 1 - 3 describes the time - from 1914 to early 1919 - when the anointed " sons of Levi " would undergo a period of refinement.
Man wey love im wife, love imself.		A man who loves his wife loves himself, for no man ever hated his own body, but he feeds and cherishes it. "
Moses use im two hand raise the rod wey e hold go up.		Moses kept his hands and the rod of the true God lifted up toward heaven.
My mama serve till e die, and that time I dey 14 years.		My mom was a faithful Witness. She died when I was 14.
Na after 1940 we start to use the name " governing body " for our book dem. That time, na brothers wey be " governing body " still dey direct matter for Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society.		The expression " governing body " began appearing in our publications in the 1940 ' s, when it was understood to be closely connected with the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society.
Na true sey, apart from gun, other things dey wey fit kill person. But to use gun kill person dey easy, whether na koro koro eye or na mistake.		Although using any number of objects could lead to incurring bloodguilt, guns make it easier to kill someone - accidentally or deliberately.
Noah know God well and that one help am.		How accurate knowledge of God benefited Noah.
Other people fit no happy because them de sick, or because somebody wey they love die.		Still others may be at a loss after being diagnosed with a serious illness, or they may be heartbroken after losing a loved one in death.
Pharaoh still promise dem sey dem go enjoy ' the better things wey dey Egypt. ' - Gen.		In fact, when his brothers came to Egypt and were reconciled with Joseph, Pharaoh welcomed them and invited them to make their home in Egypt and to enjoy " the best of all the land. " - Gen.
Plenty brothers and sisters de use their time go preach for area wey Witness no too dey.		Many brothers and sisters expend themselves in order to preach in areas where the need is greater.
Pray make help you.		Pray for guidance.
Remember sey e no easy for dem. To pack go new area, and join new congregation no easy. And e fit be sey dem go need to learn new language, and how people for the area dey do things.		All of them are initially out of their element to some extent - in a new community, new congregation, perhaps even a new language or culture.
Sarah na really Abraham sister.		In fact, Sarah was Abraham 's half sister.
Saul later die for war. Even with that one, David still wait for about seven years before dem make am king for the whole Israel. - 2 Sam.		Even when Saul was eventually killed in battle, David still had to wait about seven more years before he was given the kingship over the whole nation of Israel. - 2 Sam.
See how we take need people to teach Bible sotey even Bible student don be Bible teacher!		Imagine, the need for more teachers is so great that even Bible students are Bible teachers!
Select some name for inside, come beg when you dey pray sey mek e help dem mek dem no fear and mek dem still dey im side. - Ephesians 6: 19, 20.		Choose a few names, and ask to help these brothers and sisters to be courageous and stay loyal to him. - Ephesians 6: 19, 20.
So e get any reason why you no go love dem?		How, then, could any of us judge a fellow worshipper as being unworthy of our love?
So make we ' no stop to dey do good ' to our brothers and sisters. - Rom.		So let us " follow the course of hospitality. " - Rom.
So people for the area come gather sey dem go kill the man and im children.		To the shock and dismay of his family and friends, he is convicted on the basis of false testimony presented by who are known to be good - for - nothing men.
Some brothers don drag theirself go court. But Bible help us see sey instead make we spoil name or scatter the peace wey dey our congregation, e better make we lose.		Some have taken their brothers to court, but God 's own Book helps us to see that it is better to suffer loss than to bring reproach on God 's name or disturb the peace of the congregation.
Some of my former Bible students don be pioneer and elder for congregation now.		Some of my former Bible students are now pioneers and congregation elders.
Space dey between the wood wey dem take build the house. So when breeze dey blow, e dey pass the space enter our room and e dey make noise.		The wind whistled through the gaps between the logs, so we tried to block the holes with newspapers.
That one no be real love. Apostle Paul no be like that. E show sey na real love e get for people.		The apostle Paul avoided that trap and set a fine example in showing genuine love in the way he commended others.
The ark wey Noah build show people the faith wey e get. Na so e still be when person baptize.		Just as the ark amounted to evidence of Noah 's faith, baptism before onlookers provides visible evidence.
The brothers and sisters wey start work for here around 1950, go happy well well to see the better things wey don happen.		The dear brothers and sisters who started 's work in our area in the 1950 ' s would be astounded to see the changes we have experienced.
The second thing be sey, after the year 1500 C.E., some people come dey use language wey people dey speak everyday translate Bible.		The second notable factor was the decision by a few courageous men at the dawn of the 16th century to translate God 's Word into the languages spoken by the common people.
The sister talk sey: ' I no know where I dey go, how I go take go or wetin I want go preach.		She said: " I did not know where or how or what.
The sister use Bible answer the question.		Elizabeth answered her questions straight from the Bible.
The third thing wey we go do to show sey we no dey support politics or war, na if we believe sey go fit help us.		A third way to stay neutral is to rely on.
The way we take dey answer question and how we take dey sing fit still help dem. - Colossians 3: 16.		We also encourage them when they hear us comment and sing from our heart. - Colossians 3: 16.
Their strong faith and the love wey dem show me, don make my faith strong. "		Their strong faith, their love, and their concern have been very faith - strengthening. "
Then I go fit think which thing go help them.		Then I 'm able to think of what will help them.
This one fit dey make you vex, and you fit no dey sure if na to serve better pass.		Your frustration might even make you doubt that serving is the best way of life.
This one mean sey as dem dey travel, Gaius go give dem everything wey dem need wey go carry dem reach where dem dey go.		In this case, sending guests on their way meant meeting their needs for the next leg of the journey and supplying them with everything required until they arrived at their destination.
This thing wey Bible talk dey happen for our time. Bible talk sey this people go plenty, and now dem don pass eight million. " Dem dey worship " God " day and night. " ( Rev. 7: 9, 15; Isa.		Those gathered constitute " a mighty nation " of more than eight million happy people who " are rendering [ God ] sacred service day and night. "
True true, dey do things wey people think sey no fit happen.		Indeed, makes the most unusual things happen.
Two women come dey drag one small pikin.		We find many accounts in the Bible where a sense of compassion shines through.
We come later dey use computer talk; for there we fit see each other.		My family and I later started to use video chats.
We never sabi Swahili language and the girl no dey hear English.		We didn 't know Swahili yet, and she didn 't know English.
Wetin I go do if my work no dey too give me time?		What will I do if secular pressures continue to mount?
Wetin Zechariah come tell dem again, give dem mind.		Zechariah 's next words remove any remaining fear or doubt.
Wetin be some things wey we no fit do?		What limitations do humans have?
Wetin church leaders do Wycliffe and people wey dey follow am?		How did the clergy react to Wycliffe and his movement?
Wetin e good make we think about? Bible tell us about people wey use their mind wait for wetin promise dem.		What do we need to remember as we meditate on the examples of faithful men and women of old?
Wetin fit cause problem for people wey dey another language congregation?		What could pose a threat to our spirituality?
Wetin fit help me put body for the song wey we dey sing? '		And what can I do to express fully the feeling of the songs we sing? '
When I come be district overseer, I come see sey I still need to learn some kind things.		I needed to make more adjustments when I was assigned as a district overseer.
When Paul praise the brothers and sisters for Corinth sey dem follow im advice, we dey sure sey that one help dem continue to dey do more. ( 2 Cor.		When Paul commended the Corinthians for applying his counsel, they must have been encouraged to continue doing what was right.
When we dey do Bible study, we dey take time read Bible and our book dem. We still dey settle down think about wetin we don learn.		That includes taking in knowledge by reading and meditating on God 's Word and Bible - based publications.
When we start to learn about, we change many things for our life.		When we became servants of God, we made a transformation.
Who we go respect and praise?		To whom is honor due?
Why? So that dem go fit read and understand Bible for the original language.		Some have felt that they should learn ancient Hebrew and Greek so that they could read the Bible in the original languages.
Why e good make you talk to other people about wetin you plan to do?		Why is it worth discussing your plans for the future with experienced Christians?
Why e good to think about the advice wey dey 1 Corinthians 10: 32, 33 when we dey choose wetin we go wear?		Why should the counsel found at 1 Corinthians 10: 32, 33 influence our choice of clothing?
Why old people suppose help young men for congregation sabi do more work?		Why should older ones help younger ones to take on increased responsibility?
You No Think Sey You Need to Train People?		Young Ones - How Can You Prepare for Baptism?
I go teach una wetin good. ' - PROV.		I will give you good instruction. " - PROV.
Many times people dey talk sey dem no want hear.		How often do you hear people say, " I 'm not interested "?
But na who Jephthah go give?		But whom would Jephthah give to?
But how God go take hear us if we pray mek e give us power to take endure?		But how will God answer our prayers for strength to endure?
Why e sweet you sey na the person wey dey mold you?		What appeals to you about having as your Potter?
Philem. 1 ) Upon all the problem wey Paul face, e still love.		Yes, even when he was sorely tried, Paul maintained his love for God.
Matt. 22: 31, 32; Acts 13: 22 ) Bible talk sey e dey hungry to bring dem come life again.		God 's Word assures us that has eagerly anticipated - has had an earnest longing for - the time when he will bring them back to life.
Why We Dey Give Wetin We Get?		Why Give to the One Who Has Everything?
Wetin many papa and mama don advise their pikin to do?		What have many Christian parents done?
Wetin David mean?		What are " presumptuous acts "?
Abigail Get Better Sense!		Blessed Be Your Good Sense! "
Why use dem? Na because im people no do wetin e want.		However, the destruction was not to be indiscriminate.
But, don tell us wetin dey im mind when e make earth and human being.		Yet, has revealed to us his purpose for the earth and for mankind.
Bible no tell us sey get faith or need faith.		The Bible does not say that has or needs faith.
E no tey, the four of dem come be pioneer.		Soon, all four became pioneers.
This one mean sey Jesus dey cover for bad people? No!		Was Jesus excusing serious wrongdoing?
After I don think about wetin Jesus for do, I no make trouble with am. I just forget about the matter.		After reflecting on what Jesus would have done, I decided to let the matter go and not make an issue of it.
After some years when me and Maxine visit Bethel wey dey Brooklyn for 1972, one sister wey just finish from Gilead School come meet us.		Years later, in 1972, when Maxine and I were visiting Brooklyn Bethel, a sister who had just graduated from Gilead School approached us.
And [ Jesus ] go use loud trumpet take send im angels. Dem go gather the people wey e don choose from the four side wey wind dey, from one end of heaven go reach the other end. " ( Matt.		And [ Jesus ] will send out his angels with a great trumpet sound, and they will gather his chosen ones together from the four winds, from one extremity of the heavens to their other extremity. "
And how we fit take dey control or correct ourself?		And how can we cultivate self - discipline?
Another elder talk sey: " When I invite brothers and sisters come my house, e dey give me chance to know dem and understand dem well. E still dey help me know how dem take learn about. "		Another elder writes: " Having friends from the congregation to my home helps me to understand them better and gives me time to get to know them, especially how they came into the truth. "
Apart from the people wey they follow Judas, many Jew people de wait for Messiah to come.		Apart from those extremists, ordinary Jews were keenly awaiting the arrival of a political Messiah.
As some young people, sisters, and other new people dey sing the song, e dey make dem feel sey dem dey tell other people wetin to do.		In the audience at our meetings, assemblies, and conventions are many new ones, interested ones, young ones, and sisters who by singing the words would be put in the awkward position of telling others what to do.
As you dey find am, try to get strong faith and make you no carry shoulder up. - w16.08, pp.		As you seek it, strive to remain humble and strong in faith. - w16.08, pp.
BEFORE that time, I don dey like the truth wey I dey learn from Bible.		MY INTEREST in Bible truth had already been aroused earlier.
Because Israel people dey together de serve, they learn plenty good things from each other.		By being together, the Israelites benefited greatly from the good influence of others who worshipped.
Before some brothers start to preach to person for this kind place, dem fit use wetin dem hear for news, better thing about the person pikin, or question about the person work.		Using good judgment, a Witness may start a conversation with someone by commenting on the news, complimenting the person 's children, or asking a question about his work.
Boaz love Ruth because Ruth love im husband - mama and e don dey serve.		Not only was Boaz moved by Ruth 's unselfish love for her mother - in - law, Naomi, but he was also impressed that she had become a worshipper of.
Brown, that time e dey traveling work, and brother Fred Rusk for Bethel that time.		Brown, then a traveling overseer, and Fred Rusk of the Bethel family.
But make we no forget sey, fit do times hundred of wetin we dey ask am to do for us.		But at the same time, we need to realize that is not limited by our requests, plans, and expectations.
But no be so and Jesus dey see am.		But such unity is beautiful in the eyes of and Jesus!
But things never really change for Zechariah time.		This promise surely strengthened Zechariah.
But we dey sure sey God no forget sey dem born us inside sin. So e ready to forgive us. ( Ps.		Yet, we are assured that God remembers that we are made of dust, and he is willing to show us mercy.
But when we watch the different program for JW Broadcasting, e dey make us remember sey we get brothers and sisters for different part of the world.		But as soon as we watch the various programs on JW Broadcasting, we remember that we are part of an international brotherhood.
Dem do wetin dey Bible.		They followed the direction found in God 's Word.
E fit hard you to pray with dem because you think sey you go cry. But when you pray with dem from your mind, your prayer fit really make their mind come down. No worry even if you cry or your voice dey shake.		Even though it may be difficult to express your prayerful thoughts in such an emotional situation, your heartfelt supplication in his behalf, even through tears and an unsteady voice, can be a powerful antidote to grief.
E fit still help us choose good thing wey we go use our life do.		It can also help us to make good decisions.
E fit use our brothers and sisters take help us. Wetin dem talk and do fit ' help ' us well well. - Col. 4: 11, ftn.		He can help us through fellow worshippers who by their words and deeds can be " a strengthening aid " to us. - Col. 4: 11, ftn.
E name na Neville Bromwich.		That night, with tears in his eyes, he wrapped his arms around us.
E talk sey: " Na since when I dey young I make up my mind sey I go pioneer.		I made up my mind very early on to pioneer.
E write this thing tey tey after Job die.		Job had been dead for many centuries when Ezekiel recorded the words of our theme text.
Elders dey show sey dem love the brothers and sisters when dem let dem choose by theirself wetin to do ( Check paragraph 11 )		Loving elders help others learn to make their own decisions ( See paragraph 11 )
Even though sey Naomi im mother - in - law don old, Ruth no gree leave am.		She stuck to her mother - in - law, Naomi, rather than leave her in her old age.
FOR the whole night, seven of Jesus disciple don dey try catch fish for Sea of Galilee, but dem no fit catch anything.		SEVEN of Jesus ' disciples had just spent the entire night fishing in the Sea of Galilee but had not caught anything.
For 1870, wetin correct Christians do to make sure sey dem understand Bible well?		In the late 1800 ' s, what efforts did the anointed make to understand God 's Word correctly?
For 1961, e pack go one town wey dem dey call Kant. This place no too far from where we dey.		In 1961 this faithful brother moved to the town of Kant, which lies very close to my hometown.
For Naboth time, many Israel people dey worship Baal like King Ahab and im wicked wife wey be Queen Jezebel.		Naboth was faithful to at a time when most Israelites were following the bad example of King Ahab and his wife, wicked Queen Jezebel.
For example, talk sey make we stop to do things with person wey dem disfellowship.		For example, instructs us to " stop keeping company " with unrepentant wrongdoers.
For example, dem fit dey plan to build Kingdom Hall wey your congregation go dey use.		For example, are there plans to build a new Kingdom Hall that your congregation will use?
For example, we get jw.org and JW Broadcasting now.		In recent years, we have seen the start of jw.org and JW Broadcasting.
For our time the man wey carry wetin person take dey write, na Jesus Christ; e go mark the people wey e go save		In the modern - day fulfillment, the man with the secretary 's inkhorn represents Jesus Christ, the one behind the scenes who marks those who will survive
For the next topic, we go see some of the bad character wey people wey only love theirself and other things dey get. And we go still learn how this bad character take different from the one wey Christian suppose get.		In the next article, we will consider some of the qualities that result from selfish love and see how these contrast with the qualities found in 's servants.
For the second topic, we go learn wetin go help us to forgive other people, dey value life, and dey judge matter well, like.		In the second article, see how 's example helps us to forgive others, respect life, and act justly.
For this kind country, some people dey give money make dem fit get wetin no suppose reach their hand. Dem fit still bribe police or government worker so that dem no go pay big money wey dem suppose pay.		In an atmosphere of corruption, some people tip an official in order to obtain a service to which they are not entitled or offer a policeman or a government inspector a " tip " in order to avoid a proper and justifiable fine.
How? ( 1 ) E respect how dem take dey do things for im new place na im make e beg make dem let am gather wetin remain.		First, she showed respect for the customs of her new country by asking permission to glean.
If to sey Sarah talk sey Abraham na im husband, maybe dem for kill Abraham. And if to sey Abraham die, e for no fit born the pikin wey God promise am. - wp17.3, pp.		If Sarah had said that she was his wife, Abraham might have been killed and thus could not have produced the offspring whom God had promised him. - wp17.3, pp.
If we advise people or correct dem e no mean sey we no love dem.		Such genuine love, however, is not to be confused with sentimentality.
day don near well well. Na im make Paul talk sey make we " dey think about how we go take help each other so that we go show love and do better work. " ( Heb. 10: 24, ftn. )		In view of the proximity of 's day, Paul tells us to " be concerned about one another so as to incite to love and fine works. "
dey train us and help us to fit win our fight.		trains us and helps us in our fight.
Like Cain, all of us need to choose wetin we go do.		We too have choices and decisions to make.
Like wey don ' open road for people wey no be Jew to fit serve am, ' make we open our door to welcome stranger wey dey follow us serve. - Acts 14: 27; Gal.		Since has " opened to the nations the door to faith, " could we not open our own door to strangers who are " related to us in the faith "? - Acts 14: 27; Gal.
Many country today like to use soldier and computer check the kind people and everything wey dey happen for their country.		Most nations today have " watchmen " in the form of border patrols and high - tech surveillance systems.
Many of the topic wey dey this book for young people no be only for dem.		Many of the problems addressed in material for young people are not unique to them.
My grand mama name na Emma Wagner, na im teach my mama the truth wey dey inside Bible.		My mother was taught Bible truths by her mother, Emma Wagner.
Na im mek we need to ready our mind now sey we no go put hand for politics or war, even if the condition hard.		That is why we need to prepare ourselves now to stay neutral even in a difficult situation.
Na that time I come see sey I no really sabi dem but na ' dem sey dem sey ' make me no like dem. "		I soon came to the realization that my attitude was based on ignorance and hearsay, not on facts. "
Na the world spirit dey make people think like that, but Bible talk sey make we no think like that.		Such thinking reflects the spirit of this world - not the wisdom from above.
One thing wey e don do to help us, na to give us hope sey e go soon comot wicked people.		One way he offers help is by giving us the hope that he will soon put an end to all wickedness throughout the whole earth.
Papa and mama, e good make una show better example if una want make una children love and enter paradise.		Parents, your example is essential to start your children on the path to endless life.
Paul tell us wetin we go gain. E sey: ' Now wey dem don comot una from sin and una don be God slave, una dey produce una fruit wey go bring holy things, and for the end e go bring life wey no go end. ' - Rom.		Paul emphasized the reward that then awaits us: " Now that you were set free from sin and became slaves to God, you are producing your fruit in the way of holiness, and the end is everlasting life. " - Rom.
Paul write letter to " brothers " for Rome.		Paul addressed his letter to the " brothers " in Rome.
Person wey get this kind character fit no get plenty money or dey buy something wey cost well well.		A materialistic person may not have a lot of money or make expensive purchases.
Remember sey na God side you dey.		Remember your loyalty to God.
So, e begin do bad thing and start to worship idol.		Thus, he fell into wrongdoing and false worship.
Some of dem dey come out to talk sey dem no go gree, dem dey riot, and even try to change their government.		On the social or political level, many resort to protests, demonstrations, revolts, even revolutions.
Sometimes, e go make other people give us wetin we need, from wetin dem get.		In cases of need, he may motivate others to share what they have.
Still remember say John the Baptist ask Jesus one time say: " Na you be the Person wey we de expect say e go come? " ( Matt.		Recall that John the Baptist once asked Jesus: " Are you the Coming One, or are we to expect a different one? "
The iron for chest wey be righteousness ( Check paragraph 6 - 8 )		The breastplate of righteousness ( See paragraphs 6 - 8 )
The soldier know sey the man don drink, so e come tell am sey, " Go house make the drink clear for your eye! "		The soldier could see that the man was drunk, so he told him, " Go home and sober up! "
The truth be sey, papa and mama no go want make their pikin baptize when e never ready to give im life.		Understandably, Christian parents would not want their child to get baptized before being mature enough to make a valid dedication.
They teach us say make we de use spear kill other people wey they no dey our party, even if na the same tribe we be. "		We were taught to kill our opponents with spears - even those of our own tribe who supported other political parties.
This na better news wey everybody suppose hear!		That is an important message that everyone must hear!
This one dey make happy well well!		How pleased must be when he sees that we speak to our neighbors and others about him, doing so out of genuine love for him and genuine interest in the everlasting welfare of people!
This people change their mind and even choose who dem go serve. Na im make Israel people join dem dey serve their juju.		The people in the land who were not worshippers of influenced the Israelites ' thinking, moving them to follow that pagan crowd.
This thing happen the time wey Bath - sheba husband, Uriah, go war.		That occurred while her husband, Uriah, was away serving in the army.
Trust to show sey na all your mind you take dey serve am.		Like Asa, you can show that you have a complete heart by fully relying on God when you are faced with opposition, even some that may seem insurmountable.
Two of our sisters dey preach to one person wey dey sell something for market. The market dey one town wey dem dey call Tipitapa		Two Christian sisters share the Bible 's message with a merchant in the town of Tipitapa
We dey do like God when we dey show love, as e command us make we do.		As we show love for fellow humans, we reflect God 's glory.
We go copy how take dey judge matter?		In such a situation, will we reflect 's view of justice?
We just dey see Witness people for everywhere! ' "		We see 's everywhere! ' "
Wetin Daniel write for Bible help us know sey God Kingdom na government wey go rule the whole earth. And na Jesus Christ God choose to be King of that Kingdom. ( Dan.		From Daniel 's prophecy, we understand that God 's Kingdom is a world government in the hands of Christ Jesus.
Wetin I fit do so that my body go dey strong?		Have I taken measures to safeguard my health?
Wetin dem promise Daniel?		Daniel was given what promise about his future?
Wetin go help us carry body down?		What will help us to show humility?
Wetin happen " come make many people believe the Lord. "		That event was so convincing that " many became believers in the Lord. "
Wetin you dey contribute, dey support the work wey we dey do for the whole world ( Check paragraph 14 - 16 )		Your donations help our worldwide work ( See paragraphs 14 - 16 )
Wetin you go do so that you go remain when God destroy this wicked world?		How can you make sure that you will remain when this wicked world passes away?
When Israel people send two men to go check how Jericho be, Rahab hide dem for im house. E no fear or send dem comot.		When Israelite spies went to her home in Jericho, she could have given in to fear and turned them away.
Which question go help us check how we like enjoyment reach?		What questions will help us to analyze how much we love pleasures?
Which work the apostles and other elders for Jerusalem do for their time?		What role did the apostles and other elders in Jerusalem play in the first century?
Who make dem to fit do this kind thing?		Where did the design for living cells come from?
Why servant fit still dey happy even if im condition no easy?		Why should a loyal servant of be happy even if he or she lives in restrictive circumstances?
Why e be sey science never fit answer many question?		Why has science failed to answer many questions?
Yes we go fit because make us to fit dey copy im character. Na true sey e no easy but we go fit do am.		Inherited sin has made it challenging for us to manifest love, but it has not removed our ability to do so.
You remember how don use Bible help you before? Before our time, show sey na better thing e get for mind for im servant.		You may personally have had experiences in which God provided you with support and guidance, often through his Word.
You talk sey: ' I go treat you well, and I go make your pikin many well well like sand sand wey dey sea. ' "		You have said: ' I will certainly deal well with you, and I will make your offspring like the grains of sand of the sea. ' "
paragraph 12 ) Other people wey settle quarrel because dem like peace, na: Jacob, with Esau ( Gen. 27: 41 - 45; 33: 1 - 11 ); Joseph, with im brothers ( Gen. 45: 1 - 15 ); and Gideon, with Ephraim people.		paragraph 12 ) Others who solved problems peacefully included the following: Jacob, with Esau; Joseph, with his brothers; and Gideon, with the Ephraimites.
paragraph 18 ) If you want know advice for Bible wey fit help your family, go check the topic " Raising Children in a Foreign Land - The Challenges and the Rewards " wey dey the October 15, 2002, Watchtower for English.		paragraph 18 ) For a discussion of Bible principles that can help your family, see the article " Raising Children in a Foreign Land - The Challenges and the Rewards " in the October 15, 2002, issue of The Watchtower.
when people talk wetin we no do or praise us?		cope with criticism or praise?
Wetin e talk dey happen?		Have you seen those prophetic words come true?
Many of dem come be Christian.		Many of them became believers.
Satan still talk sey nobody dey use im mind serve God.		He contends that God 's rulership is corrupt and that withholds the best from his creatures.
Before talk to Job, one young man wey im name na Elihu, don correct Job.		Earlier, Job had also received corrective counsel from young Elihu.
Even with that one, holy spirit from God de help us make we de preach with peace and respect.		Even so, we are assisted by God 's spirit to present the good news to them in a peaceful and respectful manner.
You fit still think about other example wey dey Bible.		Perhaps you can think of similar examples recorded elsewhere in the Bible.
Jesus use this story show say Samaritan person fit teach Jew people wetin e really mean to love other people.		Jesus showed that a Samaritan could teach the Jews the meaning of true neighborly love.
At last, im former oga come call am, give am that work wey e dey do before.		Eventually, her former employer called and offered her the same position that she had before.
If you go NEWSROOM for jw.org, press LEGAL DEVELOPMENT, you go see where we write all the different different name of brothers wey dey prison, for the part wey be " 's Imprisoned for Their Faith - By Location. "		To find lists of names of brothers who are in prison, see the article on jw.org called " 's Imprisoned for Their Faith - By Location, " which can be found under NEWSROOM > LEGAL DEVELOPMENTS.
You go copy example?		Will you imitate and pass the test of humility?
How Jesus take show sey na God be im Leader?		How did Jesus acknowledge his submission to God?
Like Jehoshaphat, why e good make we no shame to talk about our problem?		Why should we imitate Jehoshaphat in acknowledging our weaknesses?
Wetin make the brothers for Philippi believe wetin Paul write?		Why could the brothers in Philippi take Paul 's words seriously?
Why e good make we talk about this matter?		Why is the topic of self - control relevant today?
So when Timothy dey around 20 years, e come reach to get some special work for congregation. - Acts 16: 1 - 3.		By the time he was in his late teens or early 20 ' s, Timothy was a Christian disciple who could be considered for special privileges in the congregation. - Acts 16: 1 - 3.
Heb. 6: 16, 17 ) E no good to play with wetin we don promise God.		What do the Scriptures say about the seriousness of making vows to God?
We no want make e hard for brothers and sisters to fit follow that advice.		We would not want to make it difficult for fellow believers to heed that counsel.
Dem fit join you and your family do family worship? Dem fit join una watch JW Broadcasting wey we dey do every month?		Could new ones join you for family worship or for the monthly JW Broadcasting program?
After, dem come lie for Joseph head sey e try to sleep with Potiphar wife. This one come make dem put am for prison.		Later, when Joseph was accused of trying to rape Potiphar 's wife and was thrown into prison, still did not step in.
And how Joseph and im family begin stay for Nazareth. ( Matt. 2: 13, 14, 19 - 23 ) For Matthew chapter one and two, Matthew use Joseph name eight times.		In the opening chapters of Matthew 's Gospel, Joseph 's name is mentioned eight times, but Mary 's, only four.
And the brother from Canada talk say na now e know say people hate other people because they no know anything about them.		So all the ingrained prejudice and hatred melted away before my eyes. "
Apart from sey e preach, e still use the power and sense wey God don give am take build the ark wey God sey make e build. - Read Hebrews 11: 7.		In addition to preaching, he also used his physical and mental abilities to accomplish the God - assigned work of building an ark. - Read Hebrews 11: 7.
Apostle Paul talk sey person wey dey allow im body control am no dey know sey no like wetin e dey do.		The apostle Paul pointed out that the fleshly person cannot see the wrongness of his position before God.
As we dey answer this question, dey think how you go take copy example. - Read Ephesians 5: 1.		In each case, look for ways that you can imitate your heavenly Father. - Read Ephesians 5: 1.
Because I dey young that time, the government no go allow me enter the country if my papa no gree.		Because I was so young, I needed my father 's permission to enter that country.
Because dem like the truth wey dem learn, dem no waste time before dem baptize.		They got baptized without delay.
Because na brothers dey use teach us for congregation, e good make dem sabi give talk well.		Since uses men as teachers in the congregation, it is important for brothers to develop speaking ability.
Bible no tell us when David and Nathan start to be friend.		The Bible does not specify when their friendship began.
Billie Nichols and im wife, and their pikin and e wife later be circuit overseer.		They later went into the circuit work, as did their son and his wife.
But, Bible no tell us for anywhere sey Joseph tell anybody sey na im brothers kidnap am.		He clearly explained the facts to the cupbearer, who perhaps would be in a position to assist him.
But, Paul write this book to people ' wey dey Rome, wey God love, wey e call to be holy people. ' ( Rom.		However, Paul was writing to " those who are in Rome as God 's beloved ones, called to be holy ones. "
But that one no stop dem to dey use all their mind take sing. Paul tell the brothers sey: ' Make una dey sing psalms and dey praise God.		Under inspiration, the apostle Paul directed his Christian brothers: " Keep on teaching and encouraging one another with psalms, praises to God, spiritual songs sung with gratitude, singing in your hearts to. "
Cool temper dey make us happy.		A mild temper can make us happy.
Daniel wey we talk about for paragraph eight talk say: " When l de do my Bible reading, l de find different - different verse wey l think say I fit use help people for preaching.		Daniel, quoted earlier, says: " As I do my Bible reading, I pick verses that I think will help people I meet in the ministry.
Dem carry many brothers go police station to know who dem be and to ask dem question.		Hundreds of ended up at police stations for identification and questioning.
Dem dey always give the people wey dey work for the farm food to chop.		My parents were farmworkers, and they worked on the kolkhoz from dawn to dusk.
Dem use eight days travel pass desert before dem reach Sudan. The journey no be here!		After four of her children made an exhausting eight - day journey across the desert, they arrived in Sudan.
Different way dey wey we fit do things wey go make happy.		Many matters could be decided one way or another, and would still be pleased.
Do wetin you promise. '		What you vow, pay. "
E clear sey, the freedom wey Jesus promise im disciples better well well pass the kind freedom wey many people want today.		Clearly, the freedom that Jesus promised his disciples is far superior to the social or political freedom that most people yearn for today.
E come talk sey: ' But we know wetin we go do una, and we go make sure sey hand touch una! '		President ] Wilson prevented it; but we know how to get you, and we are going to do it! "
E get one bridge wey we cross. As we just cross finish, dem bomb the bridge.		Just after we arrived and crossed a bridge, it was blown up.
E no tey, dem come allow Graham dey handle microphone for meeting. E like this work no be small.		Before long, he was asked to serve as a microphone handler at the Kingdom Hall - a privilege he deeply appreciated.
E really sweet me to know sey many people go get the chance to fit go this school dem. And I happy sey I don meet many people wey come this different different school.		It is exciting to see the opportunities for theocratic education expand, and I am so grateful to have met many who make themselves available for this training.
E talk how angel take appear to Joseph for dream. For the dream, e tell am how Mary take get belle. And how Joseph take follow wetin the angel tell am.		It relates Joseph 's initial reaction to Mary 's pregnancy, his dream in which an angel explained the situation, and the acceptance of that explanation.
E talk say: " Just as I don obey the commandment of my Father, and e continue to love me. " - John 13: 15.		Yet, Jesus only asked us to do what he himself did, for he added: " Just as I have observed the commandments of the Father and remain in his love. " Jesus sets the example. - John 13: 15.
E teach me plenty things.		I learned a lot from that faithful spiritual brother.
Even if e try hide how e dey feel, brothers for im congregation go still know. ( Prov.		He may try to disguise his bitterness or even his hatred, but negative thoughts lurking in his heart " will be exposed in the congregation. "
Fake love no be character wey we suppose get at all. Na so because that kind love dey deceive people.		Hypocritical love is especially shameful because it is a counterfeit of the godly quality of self - sacrificing love.
For 1926, my papa marry my mama wey be Hazel Wilkinson. My mama mother don already learn the truth for Bible for 1908.		In 1926, Arthur Guest married Hazel Wilkinson, whose mother had learned the truth in 1908.
For all this pioneer to continue, dem need to get strong mind and power wey help dem pass all the wahala wey dem face.		The early pioneers certainly needed courage and tenacity to overcome the many challenges they faced.
For example, some people dey borrow big money to build house, train person for school, buy motor, or even do big wedding. Even after many years, dem fit never pay the money finish. But e good make we live simple life. Make we no too dey owe or spend money.		Huge home mortgages, lingering student loans, expensive car payments, even extravagant weddings can result in great financial pressure.
For example, we fit think about how to handle problem and plan for tomorrow.		He gave us thinking ability to solve problems and plan for the future.
For five years, the number of publishers nearly reach times three of wetin dey before.		In a five - year period, Britain 's publisher figures almost tripled.
For some people, na when dem don old dem learn about and dem come baptize. Some of dem don even pass 100 years before dem know!		Other students see the importance of getting baptized after learning Bible truth when advanced in years - some being over 100 years of age!
God ' come dey bring dem come meet the man so that e go see wetin e go call dem one by one. '		God " began bringing them to the man to see what he would call each one. "
Holy spirit dey help Governing Body.		Evidence of holy spirit.
How we go take show sey we get faith?		In what ways must we exercise our faith?
Human being no fit stop the bad things wey dey happen.		Mankind is not able to eliminate crime.
I stay for one missionary house for Lahore with three missionary brothers.		I was based at a missionary home in Lahore, along with three other missionary brothers.
If husband dey do like that, im wife no go dey fear and e go trust am.		When he does so, his wife feels secure and finds satisfaction in being respectful, supportive, and submissive.
If we dey do this one, dem go know sey na the " slave wey get sense and wey dem fit trust, " na im dey use teach people.		A link to the Terms of Use can be found at the bottom of the home page on jw.org, and the restrictions apply to everything that is available on our websites.
If we value Bible well well, we go let wetin e talk direct our life. - Ps.		And if we highly esteem 's own Book, we will live by its instructions. - Ps.
Instead of you to dey think sey the brother no suppose be elder again, you ready to wait make Jesus wey be head for congregation handle the matter?		Rather than quickly concluding that the brother no longer qualifies as an elder, will you patiently wait on Jesus, the head of the congregation?
servant fit still get hope sey God go resurrect this people for front?		If in a certain era God was not performing resurrections, could faithful men and women expect that God would raise the dead at a future time?
Let your pikin know sey you love am and you ready to help am.		Your goal should be to provide loving support and help in a winning way.
Like Brother Sergio and the wife, plenty brothers and sisters for the whole world don de preach for this kind area wey people no de like to listen.		Like Sergio and Olinda, many faithful brothers and sisters around the world have been preaching for decades in unresponsive home territories.
Make your work dey sweet you even if people no dey see you.		Be happy to serve in the background.
Many people wey dey work dey complain sey e dey hard before people go praise dem for their work.		Many employees are not being commended, so they complain that there is a chronic shortage of encouragement in the workplace.
Mek we get the kind mind wey apostle Paul get, when e talk sey: ' We no go stop. ' - 2 Corinthians 4: 1, 16.		Let us have the same attitude as the apostle Paul, who said: " We do not give up. " - 2 Corinthians 4: 1, 16.
My mama see sey na Witness people dey teach the truth wey dey Bible. So e come baptize for 1952.		Becoming convinced that 's had the truth, she got baptized in 1952.
Na God sey make e happen because we fit bear am? '		Did it happen because God had determined that we could endure it? '
Na only family matter wey concern our pikin dey make us talk to am. "		So we kept our contact with our son to absolutely necessary family business. "
Na so go still answer our prayer if we pray for holy spirit and we ' no tire to dey pray. ' - Rom.		will likewise answer our fervent pleas for holy spirit if we " persevere in prayer. " - Rom.
Na true sey for this verse apostle Paul dey talk about sisters for congregation, but wetin e talk still concern brothers!		The apostle Paul was speaking about women, but the same basic standard applies to Christian men.
One of the ' king ' wey e preach to na Emperor Nero for Rome.		One of those " kings " was Roman Emperor Nero.
Our faith go strong if we know the answer to this question.		Those aspects have a bearing on our faith, so let us see what we find in the Scriptures.
Pikin wey dem born for organization fit talk sey, ' Na my papa and mama draw near body, I just dey do follow follow. '		A youth might reason, ' drew my parents, and I merely followed. '
Russell dey like to complain about brothers and sisters wey dey congregation.		Russell was critical and demanding of his fellow worshippers.
Satan first be good angel for heaven. But e come do wetin no like because e think sey e too much.		Remember that even a once perfect spirit creature sinned because he allowed himself to become filled with pride.
So, e fit be sey Jesus dey ask Peter about wetin e really like pass.		So it seems that Jesus was asking him where his true affection lay.
So, to show sey dem respect as the Person wey give dem life, dem no go do anything wey fit kill person.		To honor their Life - Giver, they needed to avoid any action or inaction that could endanger the life of their fellow man.
So all of us go still happy together if the person come serve. For example, e get one brother wey im name na Brandon.		Although only one brother or sister may find the person who eventually becomes a disciple, all shared in the search and all can share in the joy.
So na better thing to follow wetin Bible talk when e sey make we dey control our temper and make we no dey quick vex.		How wise it is to apply the Bible 's counsel to control our temper and avoid being quick to take offense!
Sometimes, you dey feel sey your problem don pass wetin you fit bear?		Do you sometimes feel, though, that the pressures of life are driving you to the limit?
That na why, person wey get sense go stay with im friend, and brothers and sisters go stay with other brothers and sisters.		Where possible, therefore, wise travelers stayed with friends; traveling Christians with Christian hosts.
The first thing wey dem do as dem reach Jerusalem na to build altar for where the temple first dey. Dem come dey make sacrifice give everyday.		The first thing they did upon arriving was set up an altar on the site of the former temple, and they began to offer daily sacrifices to.
The group go different different village dey force people to join dem.		Communist guerrillas roamed the countryside, forcing villagers to join their ranks.
The number one thing wey dey give us joy na the friendship wey we get with.		What greater reason for joy could we have than our relationship with God?
The prison guard fear say all the prisoners don run and e take sword to kill e self.		The jailer feared that the prisoners had fled and was about to kill himself.
The sister write sey: " Wetin I learn, open my eye to see sey too much.		That study opened my eyes to how wonderful is, " she wrote.
The things wey e dey do for us show sey na true.		The delightful sights, sounds, and tastes of creation tell you that.
The truth be say, young people fit win, and them de win already!		The fact is, young ones can win, and they are winning!
Their in - law fit come get quarrel with dem.		According to God 's Word, a wife is to accept that she will be directed by her husband rather than by her parents.
Then sing am like that. ( Isa. 24: 14 ) This one go make you fit sing come out well.		Then sing the phrase, using the same vibrant voice.
This one go show sey you no dey carry shoulder up, and our Papa wey dey heaven go answer your prayer. - 1 John 5: 14, 15.		Our heavenly Father will hear such humble prayers and answer them. - 1 John 5: 14, 15.
To dey read Bible go make you get strong faith.		Few things build our faith as much as reading God 's Word.
Two of dem na people wey serve.		Besides worshipping the same God, what could Judge Jephthah and Elkanah 's wife Hannah possibly have in common?
Una no fit serve God and money. ' ( Matt.		You cannot slave for God and for Riches. "
We come park go where Witness people no too plenty for Colorado make we for help dem. Na near Grand Junction we stay, and dem pioneer for there.		We settled near Grand Junction, where my parents pioneered and worked part - time at farming and ranching.
We dey go inside many many village go preach and the place far well well.		We had to travel far to preach to all the people in the hundreds of villages in the province.
We dey teach.		Education.
We dey use the correct time tell people why we love dem and wetin dem dey do?		Do we use suitable occasions to let others know why we love and appreciate them?
We go talk about ( 1 ) the problem wey dem face and ( 2 ) how we go take copy their example.		As we discuss each one, we will focus on ( 1 ) what challenges the man faced and ( 2 ) how we can imitate his faith and obedience.
We learn to do better research and study.		We learned to do meaningful research and study.
We try to teach all our children to love and to use all their mind serve am.		We tried to inculcate in our sons and daughters a love for and a desire to serve him.
Wetin come happen after that one?		But what happened next?
Wetin e mean to talk wetin go make person strong?		What does encouragement involve?
Wetin we fit learn from the example about the vine and the farmer?		What lesson can we draw from Jesus ' illustrations of the vine and of the sower?
Wetin we learn from the way apostle Paul and Timothy take work together?		What do we learn from the cooperation between Timothy and the apostle Paul?
Wetin we no suppose forget as we dey preach?		What should we keep in mind when sharing in our witnessing work?
Wetin we suppose remember?		What do we need to remember about grief?
When Jesus tell the people wey e dey preach to sey ' make dem no dey worry [ theirself ] about their life, ' na the same thing with sey make dem ' stop to dey worry. '		When Jesus told his listeners to " stop being anxious about [ their ] lives, " it was the same as telling them to " stop worrying. "
When they born me, my papa de work for one farmer.		When I was born, my father was working for one of the local farmers.
When we dey show ' strangers ' sey we love dem, better thing dey come out.		Showing Christian love to " foreign residents " brings good results.
Why e dey hard me to go preach for another country? Make I try am for one year na. "		Can I not serve abroad for at least one year? '
You go see things wey go help you for Benefit From Theocratic Ministry School Education book, page 184, for the box wey dem write " Overcoming Specific Problems. "		You can find practical suggestions regarding these problems in Benefit From Theocratic Ministry School Education, page 184, in the box " Overcoming Specific Problems. "
for work?		at work?
Make una praise the God. wey dey tell us better word anytime wey we dey for wahala. " - 2 COR. 1: 3, 4, ftn.		Praised be the God. who encourages us in all our trials. " - 2 COR. 1: 3, 4, ftn.
Na because God want correct dem na im make e let dem dey for fake religion hand like slave?		Is there a connection between their need for correction and discipline during that time and their being held in Babylonian captivity?
But e still good for papa and mama to make sure sey before their pikin baptize, e don ready to be Jesus disciple.		Wisely, however, parents want to be sure that before their children get baptized, they are ready to shoulder the responsibility of Christian discipleship.
Sometimes, our brothers and sisters fit need something because wetin dem put mind no work. E fit even happen sey dem no thank us for wetin we do for dem.		Or suppose a fellow Christian falls into need because of poor planning or fails to thank us for our hospitality.
All this plenty star no dey jam each other as dem dey move.		Galaxies consist of millions of stars, all moving in space in an orderly way.
How you go take help your pikin see wetin e go gain if e follow wetin talk?		How can you help your children ponder blessings that come from obeying God 's laws?
Wetin be some of the character wey Daniel get wey you go like to copy?		What qualities of Daniel would you like to imitate?
Wetin go make you use your freedom well?		What motivates you to use your free will properly?
Wetin we go learn for the next topic?		What will we consider in the next article?
Apart from that one, because of the love and faith wey they get, they don come together as one big family de serve God.		In addition, they had become members of one large spiritual family, united by love and faith.
When we baptize we dey tell to give us clean mind.		It represents our request to God for a good conscience.
How other servant of fit help young people?		How can spiritually - minded brothers and sisters benefit young ones?
Jesus and the Angels Dey Your Back		Chariots and a Crown Safeguard You
We still know sey person wey get love " no dey boast, and e no dey carry shoulder up. " ( 1 Cor.		We also know that love " does not brag, does not get puffed up. "
We dey see this peace for our congregation, assembly and when we go convention.		We experience this peace firsthand at our congregation meetings, assemblies, and conventions.
After dem free am from prison, Rudolf come be circuit overseer and dem invite am go Gilead School.		After being released from prison, Rudolf enjoyed the privilege of serving as a circuit overseer and was then invited to Gilead School.
And Daniel go soon go there. ( Eccl.		Daniel would soon be going there.
And na so e still be for other language Bible. But New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures no be like that.		The same is true of early Bible translations in other languages.
And when the egg and sperm meet, two things fit happen: ( 1 ) The egg wey the sperm meet fit start to dey grow before e reach the belle, where the pikin suppose grow, or ( 2 ) e fit reach the belle before e start to grow.		The newly fertilized egg might grow in a Fallopian tube ( an ectopic pregnancy ) or might travel into the womb.
Another thing be sey, many people no sabi read.		Moreover, the majority of people were illiterate.
As time dey go, I come sabi sign language and e come dey sweet me to play with other children.		Eventually, I learned sign language and had fun playing with the other children.
As we dey remember am, we self go still talk sey, " Thank you, because you let me dey there. "		As we reflect on such memories, we too are moved to say, " Thank you, for permitting me to be there. "
But, for person wey dey find gold, even as the gold small reach, e go still scatter the stone to get the gold.		Nevertheless, to the prospector it is worth the effort to mine it.
But John the Baptist tell them say: " God fit use this stones make children for Abraham. " - Luke 3: 8.		But John the Baptist told them: " God is able to raise up children for Abraham from these stones. " - Luke 3: 8.
But Satan don use lie fool them, and them de worship demons instead of God. ( 1 Cor. 10: 20; 2 Cor.		As a result, sincere individuals who think that they are worshipping God are deceived into worshipping demons.
But e fit be sey no be for hospital e really want go take ' treatment. ' E just want buy medicine for chemist store.		In fact, his " medical " appointment is merely a brief stop at a pharmacy or a quick visit to the doctor 's office to pay a bill.
But e no get how we try reach wey we fit know the year, day or time wey great tribulation go start.		However, try as hard as we might, we cannot pinpoint the exact year, much less day and hour, when the great tribulation will begin.
But since dem no many, how dem go take do the work?		But how would just a few accomplish so much work?
But some of dem wey don worship idol before feel sey, if person chop the meat e don serve idol.		However, others who formerly worshipped those idols felt that eating the meat would be an act of worship.
But we know sey e come from the family wey Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob come from. help this people know who e be and wetin e get for mind to do for us.		He was, however, a distant relative of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and had revealed details to them about himself and his purpose for mankind.
But when Moses hand dey heavy am and im hand don dey come down, Amalek people go dey win.		However, when Moses ' hands became heavy and began to drop down, the Amalekites started to win.
David like the advice wey Nathan give am because Nathan na better friend and na prophet. - 2 Sam.		The king must have valued Nathan 's opinion as a friend and as a man who had 's spirit. - 2 Sam.
Dem talk sey e for bad well well if no Witness pikin dey the school.		They said that it would be a shame if they had no Witness children in their school.
E get one husband and wife wey get one big business.		One couple owned a thriving manufacturing business.
E go make people know sey we love dem, we value dem, and their mind go come down.		Individuals also feel truly loved, valued, and secure - a foretaste of the blessings to come.
E no go easy for dem because dem go need to learn many new things at once.		The transition can be overwhelming.
Even if e be like sey the government good, e no fit comot all the problem wey dey this world.		Even when governments seem to be good, they cannot solve all problems.
Even though we dey suffer, don give us things wey go make our mind come down.		Though we all face trials and tribulations, provides the comfort we need.
For example, e get one day wey me and one brother wey senior me dey ride bicycle go territory. As we pass one pastor I come sey, " See one goat. "		For example, one day as an older brother and I were cycling to the preaching territory, we passed a clergyman and I said, " There goes a goat. "
For olden days, use human being take direct and arrange how im people go dey do things.		To direct and organize his people in ancient times, used visible representatives.
For one town wey dem dey call Riberalta, wey dey Beni, two brothers and their wife dey carry our book dem put for aeroplane. Four of dem na pioneer.		At Riberalta, Beni, two pioneer couples load literature onto an airplane.
For our time, people know sey na be King for heaven and earth and na only am suppose mold people.		True worshippers today recognize as the Universal Sovereign, the one having authority to mold peoples and nations.
For this matter, Jesus show us good example.		Jesus Christ set a good example of honesty.
For this topic, we go talk about wetin happen to Naboth. We go still talk about the serious mistake wey one elder do for apostle dem time.		In this article, we will consider not only Naboth 's experience but also that of a faithful elder in the first - century Christian congregation who made an error in judgment.
God dey forgive us because of Jesus sacrifice. If we dey forgive other people, e show sey we like as dey forgive us. Jesus talk one story to show sey e good to forgive people.		When we forgive those who have offended us, we show that we appreciate the forgiveness of our own sins made possible by Christ 's ransom sacrifice.
How Bible take show sey the things wey we dey give from our mind na part of our worship?		How do the Scriptures show that unselfish giving is a fundamental aspect of true worship?
How go take show ' other sheep ' im favor for the new world?		How will show his undeserved kindness toward the " other sheep " in the future?
If we dey follow new publishers waka for preaching, dem go sabi dey preach and teach wetin dey Bible.		New publishers are very likely to improve their skills as teachers of Bible truth if we work with them in the field service.
If you no pay am, e go cry to because of you, and wetin you do go be sin. '		Otherwise, he will cry out to against you, and you will be guilty of sin. "
love people wey dey do wetin e talk. E want make dem enjoy the kind life wey e get for mind from beginning.		loves people, and it is his will that obedient humans live the way he intended.
Jesus warn e disciples make they no listen to wetin any of the three group de teach. Na wetin them de teach be the yeast wey Jesus talk about.		Jesus emphatically warned his disciples to stay clear of the teachings, or leaven, that these three groups advocated.
Joseph na one of dem.		One is Jacob 's son Joseph.
Later, other sisters come dey visit us. Na so we take meet some of the first Kyrgyz people wey be Witness.		Further visits followed, whereby we met some of the first belonging to the Kyrgyz people.
Make we still see the example of one sister for United States.		Consider also the experience of a sister in the United States.
Many brothers no come dey greet me and my wife. We come be like people wey dem disfellowship. '		Many no longer greeted us, treating us like disfellowshipped persons. "
Na one congregation for Bronx I dey.		The one that I was assigned to was in the Bronx.
Na one week I take find answer to all the question wey e ask.		For a week, I burned the midnight oil to get answers to the questions he had raised.
Na this one go make dem fit get life wey no go end for paradise. - Matt.		This will put them in line to receive everlasting life here on earth. - Matt.
Na wetin happen to our brothers for Austria be that. For World War II, government for Germany arrest brother Leopold Engleitner wey come from Austria.		Leopold Engleitner was a zealous Witness from Austria whom the Nazis arrested and sent by train to Buchenwald concentration camp.
No dey carry wetin una do unaself for mind and no stop to dey use all una mind forgive unaself, even if na wetin suppose make you vex for the other person.		Continue putting up with one another and forgiving one another freely even if anyone has a cause for complaint against another.
No forget sey as take help Asa, e fit still help you.		Remember that God strengthened and helped Asa, and He will strengthen you.
One time for one place wey dem dey call San Pablo City, the heavy rain wey fall come make me no fit give talk for one market.		As I visited different congregations in the circuit, I delivered talks in public gazebos, at markets, in front of municipal halls, on basketball courts, in parks, and often on city street corners.
PEOPLE dey always ask Witness this question: " Who be una leader? "		WHO is your leader?
People wey serve before our time, show us better example of how we suppose treat government and people wey dey work for dem.		How did servants of in the past set the pattern in their relationship with secular governments and officials?
Person wey no dey pity person fit no return the cloth. This one fit make the other person no see cloth wey e go take cover imself for night.		A hard - hearted lender might have been tempted to seize the debtor 's garment, leaving him without a covering in which to sleep.
Pilate ask Jesus say: " Na you be Jew people their King? "		Pontius Pilate asked Jesus: " Are you the King of the Jews? "
Pray mek give you holy spirit because holy spirit go help you dey patient and help you to fit dey control yourself.		Pray for holy spirit, which can give you patience and self - control.
Samuel still talk sey: ' Me and my wife come still dey go meeting for our language so that our love for go dey strong more more.		Samuel adds: " To keep ourselves spiritually strong, my wife and I also attended meetings in our language.
Small small, we go come dey know how Jesus go take handle any matter.		Gradually, we come to know what Christ would do in any situation.
So Bible students wey want do everything wey Jesus talk, must stop to do wetin dem want. Dem go promise to use their life serve only.		Thus, Bible students who wish to observe all the things that Jesus commanded must disown themselves, dedicating themselves unreservedly to.
So two of dem wait until dem reach or pass 23 years.		So they did stay free until they were at least 23.
So we dey sure sey e go always love people wey no leave am. E no go ever forget wetin we do to support am. - Ex.		So we can be sure that he will always love, value, and appreciate his loyal servants. - Ex.
Some get money and people sabi dem well well, but dem still feel am sey something dey miss for their life.		Others enjoyed a measure of success in this system of things but felt that something was missing in their life.
Some people fit think sey life go better if no be we dey choose wetin we want.		Some might think that life would be more pleasant if we did not have to make decisions.
Some people start to comot for side small small. Before dem know wetin dey happen, dem go back to the bad things wey dem dey do before.		Sadly, some who once served have lowered their guard and have slipped back into their old ways.
Some white brothers and sisters na our friends.		We had dear friends in the white congregation.
Take time find the advice wey you need and use Bible take find answer for all your question.		Patiently look for the direction you need and for answers to your Bible questions.
That time, Kyrgyzstan dey under Union of Soviet Socialist Republics ( USSR ).		What is now Kyrgyzstan then belonged to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics ( USSR ).
The people still believe sey na when dem resurrect Jesus, na im wetin dey Psalm 16: 10 take happen.		More to the point, the people acknowledged that Psalm 16: 10 was fulfilled when Jesus was resurrected from the dead.
The way the person wey write psalm 136 talk am, sweet well well. E talk sey: ' Thank, because e good; im love wey no dey fail, no dey ever end. ' ( Ps.		The psalmist put matters beautifully when he sang: " Give thanks to, for he is good; his loyal love endures forever. "
Think about wetin go come out of wetin you want do.		Weigh the long - term consequences.
Think of Baruch wey dey write for prophet Jeremiah.		Consider the man Baruch, the prophet Jeremiah 's secretary.
This stone don become the main stone for the corner of the building. " - Ps.		Note what else that prophetic psalm said: " The stone that the builders rejected has become the chief cornerstone. " - Ps.
This two topic go talk about many way wey we take dey gain from favor.		These two articles examine many of the ways that we benefit from 's undeserved kindness.
Timothy learn wetin Paul teach am well and Paul come like Timothy. E dey sure sey Timothy fit teach the brothers and sisters for Corinth wetin go make their faith strong.		Timothy learned well and had won Paul 's affection, and Paul was confident that Timothy could care for the spiritual needs of those in Corinth.
To use name swear na serious matter.		It is a very serious matter to swear an oath in the name of.
We go talk about the answer for the next topic.		The next article will consider the answers to those questions.
We know sey e dey happen. Many of us fit don suffer for armed robber or bad boys hand before.		Many of us have been victims of wicked people, such as violent bullies, hateful bigots, and vicious criminals.
We know sey na the faith wey e get for Jesus sacrifice and im resurrection, na im make am ready to baptize.		That a Christian disciple has dedicated himself to on the basis of faith in the resurrected Christ.
We love dem no be small!		How we love these dear sisters!
We no ever regret am sey dem come. "		We have never regretted it. "
We use train take travel pass 3,700 miles ( 6,000 km ) before we reach Tulun for Siberia.		After traveling over 3,700 miles ( 6,000 km ) by train, we arrived in the city of Tulun in Siberia.
Wetin apostle Peter write go help Christian fit bear the plenty problem wey Satan dey cause. Peter talk sey: ' But no gree for am, mek you strong for faith, as you get am for mind sey na this kind thing your brothers wey dey everywhere for this world dey suffer. '		To encourage Christians to endure the many trials from Satan, the apostle Peter wrote: " Take your stand against him, firm in the faith, knowing that the same kind of sufferings are being experienced by the entire association of your brothers in the world. "
Wetin come happen?		What happened next?
Wetin go help people no worry sey dem don dey old?		How, then, can servants of feel secure in their old age?
Wetin go help you pass na to beg make e give you better sense so that you go fit teach wetin dey im Word. - Read Ezra 7: 10; Proverbs 3: 13, 14.		Above all, prayerfully ask for 's help to convey the precious thoughts contained in his Word. - Read Ezra 7: 10; Proverbs 3: 13, 14.
Wetin help Job fit endure all im problem?		How was Job able to endure his trials?
Wetin make Witness people no dey dress anyhow?		Why do 's maintain high standards of dress?
Wetin make us dey sure sey people wey don die go come life again when time reach?		How can we be sure that there is a basis for a future resurrection?
Wetin we go gain if we no dey raise shoulder?		What are the rewards for being humble?
When I dey London, I meet Brother Albert Schroeder.		While in London, I met Albert Schroeder.
When we dey sing to, we dey praise am and dey show sey we love am. And this one dey make us near am. E get another thing wey better pass this one?		What better thoughts could we " feel " than those that express praise and love for our heavenly Father,?
When you and your pikin dey cook, na another chance wey you fit use help am get faith.		You might even use a recipe to help your child build faith in God.
Why e good make your children learn your language?		How may your children benefit from learning your language?
Why you want make God spirit continue to direct you?		Why do you want to move forward spiritually?
Yes, we fit do like Jesus because we fit copy God character. ( Gen.		Yes, we can imitate the example of Jesus, for we too are made in God 's image and likeness.
paragraph 1 ) No be im real name be that.		paragraph 1 ) Name has been changed.
Make wuna continue to produce plenty fruit and de show say wuna be my disciples, because this one de bring my Father honor. " - JOHN 15: 8.		My Father is glorified in this, that you keep bearing much fruit and prove yourselves my disciples. " - JOHN 15: 8.
no go stop to lead you. ' - ISA.		will always lead you. " - ISA.
The story of ' people wey don endure ' dey teach us how we fit dey do wetin God want. Their story still teach us sey we fit bear any problem and sey God go bless us if we dey im side.		The experiences of " those who have endured " teach us how to remain faithful, reassure us that we can succeed, and remind us that our loyalty will be rewarded.
Na true sey, you self dey always want go meeting.		Of course, you too likely look forward to going to the meetings.
Paul still tell dem sey: ' I dey talk this one so that nobody go use sweet mouth deceive una.		Paul further stated: " I am saying this so that no one may delude you with persuasive arguments.
choose Paul make e preach give people wey no be Jew so that dem go fit join people wey go rule with Christ for im Kingdom.		Paul had been commissioned to spread the good news to non - Jews so that they too could be included among those called to be associated with Christ in the Messianic Kingdom government.
So na serious thing e be for person to give im life and baptize.		A person who needlessly delays getting baptized endangers his prospects for everlasting life.
Wetin don happen to many of God servant for apostle Paul time and for our time, show sey prayer fit give us power and strong mind to continue to bear any problem.		The experience of many, both in Paul 's day and in ours, proves that prayer can help us to renew our power and build up confidence to continue enduring.
David talk wetin dey the mind of all servant.		Those words surely express the sentiments of all loyal of.
And who fit talk sey e never learn one better thing from the book of Proverbs or Psalms?		And who among us has not found comfort in the Psalms or drawn practical lessons from the book of Proverbs?
Wetin Romans 12: 3 talk about oversabi?		How does Romans 12: 3 apply to a modest person?
Wetin e good to remember about bad friend?		What should we bear in mind when faced with the problem of bad associations?
Ps. 78: 40, 41 ) All of dem wey no come get faith and wey get strong head no enter the Promise Land.		Because of their hard - heartedness and lack of faith, that generation perished in the wilderness.
Love Na Better Character		Love - A Precious Quality
Better Story About Us Wey Don Happen		From Our Archives
When dem born pikin, e no dey know wetin good and wetin bad.		Of course, children are not born knowing right from wrong.
After Adam and Eve sin, wetin tell us about our enemy?		In Eden, what did reveal about our enemy?
After e die, Pope John Paul II even talk sey e don be " saint " for heaven.		After he died, Pope John Paul II honored him by beatifying him.
And make we dey live with sense, dey do good, and dey hold God tight even though sey we dey this world. '		As a result, we learn " to reject ungodliness and worldly desires and to live with soundness of mind and righteousness and godly devotion amid this present system of things. " - Titus 2: 12.
Any time I get chance to talk with my family people, I dey like preach to dem.		Whenever I could, I tried to speak to my family about the truth.
Because Timothy still dey young, e fit no get mind and e fit dey fear whether e fit do the new work wey dem give am. ( 1 Tim.		At first, being young, Timothy may have lacked self - confidence and may have hesitated to act in his newly assigned role.
Before Paul become Christian, e first get am for mind to be big man. But later, Paul come see sey wetin make am really happy na to dey tell people about and dey see how Bible dey change their life.		Earlier in life, he had pursued a promising career in Judaism, but he found true happiness when he became a disciple - maker and witnessed how people responded to God 's message and how it changed their life.
Bible come later tell us sey na one of dem go send to scatter Satan head. Na im go still use give us wetin Adam and Eve trowey - life wey no go end for paradise earth, as take get for mind before. - John 3: 16.		The Scriptures later revealed that from his wifelike organization, God would send one who would " crush " the Devil and provide the means for obedient mankind to enjoy the prospect that the first human pair lost - that of living forever on the earth in keeping with 's original purpose. - John 3: 16.
Bible reach people hand and as dem dey read am, question come dey come, like: ' Where purgatory dey for Bible?		As they read, they asked questions: ' Where in God 's Word is there mention of purgatory?
Bible talk sey, ' make person wey think sey e stand ' well put eye for ground ' make e no fall. ' E good make all of us put this one for mind. - 1 Cor.		Thus, we all need to take to heart the warning: " Let the one who thinks he is standing beware that he does not fall. " - 1 Cor.
But Bible let us know sey dem settle the matter because Paul later allow Mark follow am do missionary work. ( Col.		And we read that Paul and Mark later worked together again.
But as all of us wey dey serve dey join hand for this preaching, e dey mek the whole world fit hear the good news about God Kingdom.		But as a result of the combined efforts of millions of 's servants, a witness is given " to all the nations. "
But to serve no be like that at all! My mind dey sweet me like sey I don get everything! "		Serving, though, has brought me the greatest happiness and sense of accomplishment. "
But we fit don do something wey help people come know and continue to serve am. Anything wey we do for dem na better thing. We and dem no go ever forget am. - Matt.		While the majority of God 's people do not preach in such fruitful territories, anything we do to help others find and stay on the road to life is something that we and they will treasure forever. - Matt.
But we need to wait, and e fit be say we go suffer for some time.		But we have to wait, and we might have to suffer hardships in the meantime.
Dem believe sey be like the papa for the story of ' the pikin wey go waste im papa money. '		Today, a number of Christian parents find themselves in a similar situation.
Dem come see sey if person no follow wetin talk, na only bad thing go come out. ( Gen.		In fact, they soon learned that rejecting 's direction and going their own way resulted in disaster.
E dey ' make our mind come down anytime wey we dey wahala. '		He " comforts us in all our trials. "
E fit even dey think sey other young people dey do well for congregation pass am.		Other possible causes may be loneliness or the feeling that other Christian youths are doing better spiritually.
E go still help us make we no comot for side if person wey we dey respect well well, do wetin we no believe sey e fit do.		Moreover, it is the course of wisdom, helping us to avoid being stumbled if some human to whom we showed honor disappoints us.
E go write letter to show sey e no dey borrow am to branch office but na gift.		Include a letter indicating that the cash or the item is an outright donation.
E leave the matter for hand.		He had to leave the matter in 's hands.
E name na Anton Gill. E talk sey: " Nazi government for Germany hate Witness people well well.		For example, regarding our brothers and sisters in Nazi Germany, author Anton Gill wrote: " 's attracted the especial enmity of the Nazis.
E no dey im mind to comot because e know sey if e comot e no go fit enter again.		Reluctantly, he left the hall, knowing that he could not reenter.
E pain me well well! "		It was heartbreaking! "
E sey: ' Our work dey let us chop for better restaurant, travel go different different country, and wear better cloth.		Our jobs allowed us to eat in fine restaurants, travel abroad, and wear quality clothes.
Even though sey cold dey catch us, we want enter inside the water and fire no dey the house to make am warm!		We were standing before a livestock watering trough that was partially filled with cold water!
Even though sey na high pass for the whole world, you think sey e dey look wetin we dey do for im work like that?		However, is that how views our contribution to the Kingdom work as he looks at our planet from his lofty perspective?
Everytime, we de check mail box but e dey empty.		Finally, a letter came one day - we were assigned to the traveling work!
For Watch Tower of June 1, 1925, the topic " Light in the Darkness " talk say: " Nobody fit talk say e de do wetin the Lord talk for the remaining time. unless the person do e best make e light shine. "		See opening picture. ) " No one could be faithful and true to the Lord in these remaining days. unless he would avail himself of the opportunity of letting his light shine. " That was a comment in the article " Light in the Darkness, " published in The Watch Tower of June 1, 1925.
For one assembly, one brother ask me if I go like to preach.		During an assembly, a brother asked me if I would like to preach.
For there, e come be King of God Kingdom for 1914. ( Heb.		After his sacrificial death, Jesus returned to heavenly spirit life to become the King of God 's Kingdom in 1914.
Give example of wetin go do about the bad condition wey we dey face today?		What will do about distressful conditions? Give an example.
God give us Bible to help us.		The Bible was recorded for our benefit.
Hope dey make person faith strong.		Faith is reinforced by hope.
How body dey do us because of the sin wey dey our body?		Because of sin, what feelings are common among God 's faithful servants?
How e take affect wetin you dey see as the number one thing for your life?		What insight do those scriptures give you into God 's thinking?
How we fit help our brothers and sisters wey dey face this problem to ' dey happy as dem dey serve? '		How can we help these brothers and sisters to " serve with rejoicing " despite their trials?
I don see say people de listen when they notice say you really like wetin dey Bible, and you de do everything wey you fit do to help them. "		I 've found that people respond well when they see that you are passionate about the Bible and are doing your best to help them. "
I get 15 to 20 Bible student.		I had 15 to 20 Bible studies.
If elders don agree for matter and you no like am or understand am, wetin you go do?		How will you respond if the elders make a decision that you do not understand or perhaps do not agree with?
If person ask you make you show am for Bible wetin make you believe sey people wey don die fit come life again, even if e don tey wey dem make the promise, wetin you go talk?		Still, how would you respond if asked for evidence that resurrection promises are valid many years or even centuries after they were made?
If person dey fear and ready to do wetin e talk, dey look this kind person as mature person. - Read Psalm 111: 10.		Spiritual maturity is not determined primarily by age but by a person 's healthy fear of and readiness to obey his commands. - Read Psalm 111: 10.
If person let fear make am stop to serve, na im be sey the person hand don weak. Instead make that one happen, our Father, wey love us sey make we ' throw all the things wey dey worry us give am. ' ( 1 Pet.		Rather than give in to fear and discouragement, which is like letting our hands drop down, we are invited by our caring Father, to ' throw all our anxiety on him. '
If this kind thing happen, do like Asa.		In such situations, pray to God, just as Asa did.
If we dey comot for where we don stay for some week, sometimes we dey tell some of dem wey serious to help us study with other student till we come back.		Although we had to leave after spending a few weeks in a certain place, we often asked the most interested people to continue studying with the others until we returned.
If we do all this things, we go dey get better sense. The second one dey for Proverbs 18: 1.		Second, Proverbs 18: 1 says: " Whoever isolates himself pursues his own selfish desires; he rejects all practical wisdom. "
Jean - David wey we talk about before, talk sey the brothers really take care of dem well.		We ' tasted ' the brothers ' hospitality, " said Jean - David, mentioned earlier.
Later, God come tell Noah sey e want use water destroy all the bad people.		In time, God warned Noah that He was going to bring a flood upon the earth.
Make we dey always think well about the things wey we don read for Bible. We fit even think about dem pass once everyday.		Do we take the time to ponder, or dwell on, Scriptural passages throughout the day?
Many problem wey we get today na from religion, government and business.		Much of the evil that is done in this world is the work not of individuals but of organizations.
Many times, Bible show sey dey pity for people.		We find many instances where 's compassion must have been involved.
Moses help Israel people remember sey no dey change, e no go stop to help dem and show sey e love dem.		Yes, Moses reminded the people that was constant and unchanging in his love and care for them.
My husband come start to dey study one man wey be the oga of police.		Then Walter started a Bible study with the chief of police.
My missionary partner really take care of me when I dey sick because e love me.		My missionary partner lovingly cared for me when I was sick.
Na get all the gold and silver for this world.		owns all the gold and silver along with all other natural resources of the earth, and he uses them to provide what is needed to sustain life.
Na better thing for person to allow God spirit direct am.		Becoming a spiritual person is very important.
Na for 1941 I really start to live the kind life wey don make me happy well well.		It was really in 1941 that I embarked on the life that has made me so happy.
Na only this organization dey preach the good news about God Kingdom as Jesus command im disciples to do. '		It is the only one doing the work Jesus commanded his disciples to do - preach the good news of God 's Kingdom! "
Na so e be for the apostles time, and na so e still be today.		That was true in the first century, and it is true today.
Na this one make servant dey respect, support, and praise government people for their work.		Fittingly, 's willingly render honor to public servants, even as it may be expected and as may be customary in the land.
No be trinity Moses dey talk about for here.		It does not appear that Moses was here refuting the false religious teachings of a triune god.
Noah no be only good person.		Noah was not content just to lead a good life.
One brother talk sey e get where e reach, the bad things wey e dey do no come dey worry am for mind.		One brother said that in time his improper conduct did not bother him much at all.
Our meeting dey help us because e dey give us power to continue to serve		Our meetings encourage us and give us the strength to keep serving
Paul talk about other bad character wey show sey people no go love each other.		Paul lists other negative qualities that show that people lack love for one another.
Some month pass before we get our visa. After we don get am, we come enter ship and we dey on top water for 47 days! As we dey travel we pass different different place like, Rotterdam, the Mediterranean Sea, the Suez Canal, the Indian Ocean, Malaysia, and Hong Kong.		We had to wait several months for our visas; then we were on our way by ship via Rotterdam, the Mediterranean Sea, the Suez Canal, the Indian Ocean, Malaysia, and Hong Kong - 47 days at sea!
Sometimes, body fit tire you or something fit make you fear.		You may, of course, encounter frightening, morale - weakening events.
Still dey try. E dey hard Eddie, one pioneer for New York City, to preach for open place.		Eddie, a pioneer in New York City, was hesitant about conversing with people in public.
That small boy really show sey e get better sense. People wey don big fit learn something from this small boy.		The little boy in that story displayed a quality that adults could benefit from - practical wisdom.
The man send some police make dem dey near our house for one week.		He made sure that police officers stood near our home for a week, and the persecutors gave us no more trouble.
The thing wey Jesus talk for Matthew 28: 19, 20, how e fit help papa and mama as dem dey teach their children?		How can Jesus ' command found at Matthew 28: 19, 20 help parents as they teach their children?
This one go help us de understand ' wetin God want make we do. ' ( Eph.		Therefore, search for Scriptural principles in order to ' perceive what the will of is. '
This one go make dem fit really enjoy the Paradise and the many better things for there.		Thus they could enjoy to the full the beauty and bounty of their Paradise home.
This one make dem different from people wey dey lead for religion today and for Jesus time. Jesus talk sey: ' When dem go party, dem like to sitdown for where big man dey sitdown and for front chair for synagogue and dem like make people dey hail dem for market. ' - Matt.		In this they differ from many modern - day religious leaders and from those of the first century about whom Jesus said: " They like the most prominent place at evening meals and the front seats in the synagogues and the greetings in the marketplaces. " - Matt.
To serve dey sweet well well.		Serving brings much joy.
Today we don already dey see am sey people ' no dey do wetin dem talk sey dem go do ' and ' dem stubborn. ' People go even come dey hate each other pass before.		People today are already " not open to any agreement " and " headstrong, " and they will become even more divided.
WE FIT enjoy many better things because Jesus die for us.		MANY are the blessings made possible by the ransom sacrifice of Jesus Christ.
We come call one brother wey come carry us go im house and still carry us go meeting.		We called a brother who came and took us to his home and then to the congregation meeting.
We go happy to see sey the people wey we help dey ' work well well ' and dem dey try for work.		We will rejoice as we see those whom we assist go on ' working hard and exerting themselves. '
Wetin go take bless us go better pass anything wey we don leave because of am, even if e no easy for us.		Our sacrifices may be painful, but 's blessings are always greater.
Wetin help am endure?		What helped him endure?
Wetin this story teach us?		What can we learn from this account?
When I start to serve congregations, I work with Brother Thompson as my first district overseer.		After I was appointed, Brother Thompson was the first district overseer I served with.
When Jephthah come back from the fight, the first person wey run come meet am na im only pikin! Jephthah love this pikin.		When Jephthah came back from the battle, the first person who came out to meet him was his beloved daughter, his only child!
When dem want flog am, Paul come tell dem sey e come from Rome.		When Paul was being prepared to be whipped, he revealed that he was a Roman citizen.
Which example show sey we no need to prepare many things to show people sey we love dem?		What experience shows that hospitality need not be elaborate?
Why e good sey we need to change wetin we believe about when fake religion start to control God people for our time?		Why is it appropriate for us to clarify our understanding of the modern - day Babylonian captivity?
ALL the war wey don happen before be like nothing when you look am with the kind serious suffer wey dey Europe now.		ALL the wars of the past. pale into insignificance before the present great struggle progressing in Europe.
People wey get better sense know where dem suppose do reach. ' - PROV.		Wisdom is with the modest ones. " - PROV.
God still see other people wey dey thief, drink too much and wey dey live anyhow life before, as people wey e fit use take do better thing. ( Rom.		Others whom God saw as potential vessels " for an honorable use " included former drunkards, immoral people, and thieves.
[CONTENT_REMOVED]		See opening image. )
But help am get strong mind and e come do the work.		Yet, helped him, and in time, Moses developed courage to accomplish the work.
If no love dem, you think sey e for draw dem come im side?		Since has drawn them to him, he must find them lovable.
Jesus even call Mary im mama " woman " when e dey talk to am. For that time, that na the normal way to show sey person get respect.		Jesus even used this customary form of address, which was considered polite in Bible times, when speaking to his own mother.
Many times, if person dey carry imself down, e dey know where e suppose do reach, know wetin e fit do, gree sey e do mistake, ready to take advice and learn.		In the Bible, humility refers to being free from pride or arrogance.
We no go ever enter fake religion hand again because angels dey protect us. ( Ps.		Because we have angelic protection, we need not fear that 's organization might go through another time of spiritual oppression.
So, make we no think sey, once we read Bible, the person don understand am.		So we should not assume that a person will grasp the point of a verse simply because we read it.
Why many people feel sey dem no need to know where dem suppose do reach?		What do many people think about modesty?
Make we know sey when we dey prepare for preaching, meeting or talk, we fit no see how e take affect our life.		We must recognize that when we prepare for the ministry, for the meetings, or for a talk, we may not necessarily apply what we read to ourselves.
Which things papa go put for mind?		What factors will the family head take into consideration?
We no know why e behave like that. But, the whole kingdom follow e example.		Whatever his reasons, the nation as a whole followed him.
Prov. 22: 5 ) Some people don still use things for our book, logo and other things wey we get take do advert. Some even dey put am for things wey dem want sell, and inside computer program for phone.		Others have used material from our publications or our jw.org logo in advertisements, on products offered for sale, and in mobile device apps.
E still promise us sey e go better for us if we no dey tight hand.		promises that the one who gives generously will prosper.
Remember sey when God correct person, e show sey e love the person, and e dey show the kind sense wey God get.		Remember, 's discipline reflects his matchless wisdom and love.
Rev. 12: 17 ) So e no surprise us sey sometimes, some things fit dey worry some of people for mind.		Therefore, it is not surprising that at times even we, God 's servants, experience some feelings of anxiety.
After all, put this things for Bible for us. Na ' for us to learn, so that as we dey endure and as we dey get better advice from the things wey dey inside Bible, we fit get hope. ' ( Rom.		After all, had it preserved " for our instruction, so that through our endurance and through the comfort from the Scriptures we might have hope. "
And ( 3 ) how Jesus teach us say we no suppose to fight, or cause trouble?		And how did Jesus teach us that violence against others is not justified?
And to fit choose wetin good, we must follow wetin Bible talk.		It is up to each of us to make decisions, and the wise, right choices are based on sound Scriptural knowledge.
Apostle Paul talk sey: ' If you use your mouth tell people sey Jesus na Lord, and you get the faith for your mind sey God raise am from death, you go save.		The apostle Paul explained: " If you publicly declare with your mouth that Jesus is Lord, and exercise faith in your heart that God raised him up from the dead, you will be saved.
Apostle Paul warn us sey, ' to sabi dey make person raise shoulder. '		The apostle Paul warned that " knowledge puffs up. "
As I come dey grow, the way I take dey answer the question come dey better. "		As I got older, I had to expand on my answers. "
Because dey bless our preaching work, the way we dey do am dey change.		The work of 's people has grown in scope and complexity.
Because of that one, God bless dem well well and dem come get hope sey better things dey front for dem.		As a result, they reaped rich blessings and a sure hope for the future.
Before Memorial day reach, we fit arrange our time well so that we go get more time to pray to. And we still need to think about how we take dey serve to know if we still be im tight friend.		In the days leading up to the Memorial, we can set aside time to examine prayerfully and carefully our personal relationship with.
Before we start to preach, we learn how to greet people. We still practice how we go use one minute talk when we want give people magazine.		After learning basic forms of address and memorizing a one - minute magazine presentation, we were invited to begin engaging in the field service.
Beg mek e give you power.		Ask for strength.
Bible dey help us " comot eye for things wey God no like and things wey this world like. "		That way, our fine conduct will bring glory to God and not to us.
Bible tell us sey: " Noah come do all the things wey God command am.		Noah did according to all that God had commanded him.
But God bring Jesus come life again so that e go be " the main stone for the corner of the building. " - w17.12, pp.		In order for him to become " the chief cornerstone, " he had to be resurrected. - w17.12, pp.
But no do wetin e talk. Instead, let Satan suffer Job.		Satan suggested that God personally afflict Job.
But for the law wey give Israel people, e tell dem sey: ' If you catch person wey dey sleep with another man wife, make you kill two of dem. ' - Deut.		But the law that God gave to the nation of Israel said: " If a man is found lying down with a woman who is the wife of another man, both of them must die together. " - Deut.
But the person need to first go tell the elders wetin happen. And if the elders really see sey na by mistake, dem go let am stay the city until the high priest die.		Even so, he had to present his case before the elders, and if his deed was judged accidental, he had to remain in the city of refuge until the death of the high priest.
But we never win finish.		However, we have not yet won the final victory.
Check 1988 Yearbook, pp.		See the 1988 Yearbook, pp.
Daniel wey we talk about before, don see sey na true.		Daniel, quoted earlier, found this to be true.
Dem suppose put ear for message, get better character wey Christian suppose get, serve and continue to support the people wey go rule with Jesus. ( Matt.		They need to react favorably to the preaching work that is taking place, put on the Christian personality, dedicate themselves to, and loyally support Christ 's brothers.
Dem talk sey: " We dey help our pikin dem think about the kind love wey make give us all this things. "		We remind our children of the love and forethought that put into everything he provided for us, " the parents state.
Dem use Hebrew language take write God name for the paper. The brother still tell us why dem value this old paper.		They contained God 's name in Hebrew letters, and he explained their importance.
E DON tey wey one young brother, wey never marry, dey think about wetin dey 1 Corinthians 7: 28. That place talk sey, ' People wey marry go get problem ' for this life.		Eduardo had been thinking about what we read at 1 Corinthians 7: 28: " Those who [ marry ] will have tribulation in their flesh. "
E be like sey many people no know sey wetin we need different from wetin we want.		It seems that many cannot see the difference between material needs and wants.
E dey hungry me to see Eunice when e go come life again.		I long for the day when I will see her again.
E even bring people wey die come back to life.		He raised the dead.
E fit be sey see Shebna as person wey go fit change, na im make am correct am like that. This na the second thing wey we learn. ( Prov.		Second, in strongly reproving Shebna, may have been showing that he did not consider Shebna beyond recovery.
E fit be sey na our person die, or we know person wey e happen to. We fit come dey think sey: ' If this kind thing happen to person, wetin fit make im mind come down? '		Whether you have personally lost a loved one in death or know someone who is bereaved, you may wonder, ' How can grieving ones be helped to deal with their heartache? '
E no go make sense if person come dey blame or im people because of the mistake wey some of God servant do. Make we no stop to serve. Make we dey support im work.		It would certainly be unwise and misguided to blame or his congregation for the faults of relatively few of God 's servants.
E still talk sey make dem pray, and God go give dem peace.		Pray, and then you will receive the peace of God.
E study Bible with Witness, and e baptize.		As a result, he read our publications, studied the Bible, and got baptized.
E surprise them say Jesus de teach the Samaritan woman with all e heart.		They were surprised to see that Jesus was willing to teach a Samaritan woman.
Faith na about two things wey we no fit see, dem be: ( 1 ) ' Wetin we dey wait for ' - things wey God don promise like, to make this earth paradise and destroy bad people.		Faith focuses on two kinds of things that are not visible to us: ( 1 ) " What is hoped for " - this may include future events that have been promised to happen but that have not yet occurred, such as the end of all wickedness and the coming new world.
For example, ' The last time wey brother or sister for congregation make me vex, wetin I do?		Ask yourself: ' What governed my thinking the last time I faced such a situation?
For example, you go fit go join congregation wey their publisher no plenty?		For example, can you transfer to a congregation where the need for Kingdom publishers is greater?
For the next topic, we go see sey this people really know and na this one make dem hold am tight.		As we shall see in the next article, the key to their integrity was that they truly knew.
How we go take show sey we dey gentle and we dey patient?		How can we show mildness and patience?
How you fit teach your pikin sey na God spirit help the person wey write this verse for Bible?		How might you show that this scripture was inspired?
If e happen like this, wetin e good make we do? Bible tell us sey: ' Dey do good to unaself and no complain. ' ( 1 Pet.		In such situations, we should apply the counsel: " Be hospitable to one another without grumbling. "
If husband and wife dey think sey dem go like use IUD, make dem first tell doctor. The doctor go tell dem the kind IUD wey dem fit get for their area. E go still tell dem the gain and the problem wey the IUD fit cause for the woman body.		A Christian couple considering the use of an IUD might discuss with a qualified medical professional the IUD products available locally as well as possible benefits and risks to the wife.
If we see sey we don dey get this kind bad mind, make we check our faith quick quick!		If we detect such a hardening attitude developing within us, we urgently need to examine our faith!
If we want make Jesus continue to love us, or we want remain for e love, wetin we go do?		How do we show that we want to remain in Christ 's love and keep his approval?
Instead, e talk sey: " I know sey my brother go come life again. "		She said: " I know he will rise. "
Jephthah go gree do wetin e promise?		Would Jephthah be faithful to his promise?
Jesus tell us the answer.		Jesus said: " These things I have spoken to you, so that my joy may be in you and your joy may be made full. "
Job 28: 12, 15 talk sey the sense wey God dey give better pass gold or silver.		Job 28: 12, 15 shows that divine wisdom is better than gold or silver.
Make dem continue to believe sey God go give dem wetin dem need.		They need to continue cultivating faith in God, trusting that he will provide their necessities.
Make we continue to dey show sey we get faith for wetin don promise!		May we keep on exercising our faith in 's promises!
Make we make sure sey we go the Memorial wey we go do for March 31, 2018.		May we be determined to benefit ourselves by attending the Memorial on March 31, 2018.
Na Catholic church my family dey go and we no dey take church matter play at all.		My family was Catholic, and we were very religious.
Na make heaven and earth. So we believe sey wetin e promise must happen.		It is a sure hope, one based on the promise of the Creator himself.
Na me and am dey do things together before.		In the past, Arthur had always been there for me.
Na seven times Brother Russell visit Ireland.		Brother Russell visited Ireland seven times in all.
No be today people start to use song praise am.		Faithful worshippers of have long used music as a way to praise.
No matter the problem wey we face, I know sey my wife go support me.		I can absolutely rely on her, no matter what challenges we face.
One day when I dey waka near water, I come see other Witness from other camp.		One day while walking on the beach, I met several from other camps.
One reason be sey God people dey try make dem fit follow wetin Bible talk, when e sey: ' Make una kill the different different part of una body wey dey this world for where things like this dey: all sex wey no clean for God eye, to live dirty life and to hungry to sleep with person wey no be your husband or wife. ' ( Col.		One reason is that God 's people work hard to apply the Bible 's admonition: " Deaden, therefore, your body members that are on the earth as respects sexual immorality, uncleanness, uncontrolled sexual passion. "
One thing wey we fit do to make the one mind wey we get continue, na to carry body down.		One way we can promote the unity of God 's people is by cultivating humility.
Or what if some papa and mama for your congregation, dey allow their children do things wey you no want make your children do.		Or perhaps a few parents in the congregation allow their children to do things that you do not want your child to do.
Paul talk sey im no ' be anything ' If e no get love.		Paul said that without love, he was " nothing. "
Publishers for here need to leave other things so that they fit go preach for another place.		Publishers must make sacrifices to help out in other territories.
Riana talk sey: " Na every two weeks I dey give public talk.		Riana adds: " I was assigned to give a public talk every other week.
Sense really dey wetin Joseph talk!		How wise his words were!
Since five years now, e don pass 250,000 people wey don start to dey pioneer. And the number of regular pioneer don pass 1,100,000.		Records show that in the last five years, the average number of regular pioneers has grown to over 1,100,000 and more than a quarter of a million worldwide have been added to the ranks of full - time preachers.
So, make anything wey you dey plan show sey you love God and people. Na wetin want be that. - Read Matthew 22: 36 - 39.		Therefore, desires that your plans focus on demonstrating love for others and for God. - Read Matthew 22: 36 - 39.
The brother talk say: " I think say French people better pass other people.		I thought French - speaking people were superior, " he admits.
The man listen well as e dey preach for am.		On the trip to the camp, Brother Engleitner respectfully explained his beliefs to Gleissner, who listened carefully.
The road no smooth at all, and na so so stone full am.		No public transportation reached those places.
The school na for one month. They go train circuit overseers, district overseers, and other brothers for congregation.		It was a full month of training for those with oversight of the congregations, circuits, and districts.
The second one talk about the reasons for Bible wey them de make us no tire to preach.		The second article examines several Scriptural reasons that motivate us to carry out the preaching work with endurance.
The thing pain am reach bone sotey e come dey cry. - John 11: 33 - 36.		He was so moved that a surge of strong empathetic feeling cut him to the heart and brought him to tears. - John 11: 33 - 36.
This magazine dey for 254 language, and for any magazine wey come out, na about 59 million we dey print. For the whole world, e no get any magazine wey dem dey print reach like this.		This magazine is available in 254 languages, and an average of nearly 59 million copies of each issue are produced, making it the most widely circulated magazine in the world.
This one come help the sister faith strong and come make am near well well. - Matt.		This helped to strengthen her faith and drew her closer to. - Matt.
This one come make Asa fit arrange things well again so that Israel people fit dey serve as want.		This moved Asa to make many changes so as to restore pure worship.
This one fit scatter the peace wey dey our family. We need to get mind to fit face this kind wahala.		This opposition could affect peaceful relations among family members.
This things go fit make our mind come down now and for front. Na wetin we go talk about for this topic.		This article reviews vital provisions that we can use to receive true comfort now and in the future.
To make the pikin understand this one, e fit seize the ball for some time.		For example, she might take the ball away from Johnny for a period of time.
We de preach because we love, Jesus, and our neighbor ( Check paragraph 5, 10 )		Love for, Jesus, and our neighbor moves us to preach ( See paragraphs 5, 10 )
We don explain before sey for this our time, the man wey carry wetin person take dey write na the people wey go follow Jesus rule wey still dey this world.		In the past, we have explained that in the modern - day fulfillment of this vision, the man with the secretary 's inkhorn represented the anointed remnant.
We go need to learn how to see things the way God de see them.		A key is to learn to view things the way views them.
Wetin come help am?		What helped him eventually?
Wetin fit help us know whether we don dey put our work as number one thing for life?		How can we maintain a balanced view of our secular work?
Wetin help Daniel?		How did he recover?
Wetin the Law do for Israel people?		What overall purpose did the Law serve?
Wetin the favor wey dey show us suppose make us do?		What should 's undeserved kindness motivate us to do?
Wetin we dey like pass, and wetin we dey always want talk about?		What is of greatest interest to us, and to what does our speech gravitate?
When people read wetin tell Adam, many of dem fit talk sey God no give Adam freedom to fit do wetin e want.		Upon reading 's command to Adam, many today would say that Adam was denied the freedom to do what he wanted.
When refugee brothers no dey feel sey people must continue to dash dem things, dem dey show sey dem like wetin the brothers dey do for dem.		And when refugees show gratitude, never demanding anything, they help their hosts to experience the joy of giving.
Where the good news go reach? Jesus talk sey people go preach this good news for ' everywhere for this world. ' ( Matt.		Jesus described the scope of the preaching work by saying that the good news would be preached " in all the inhabited earth. "
Which kind person Naboth be, and why e no gree sell im farm give King Ahab?		What kind of man was Naboth, and why did he refuse to sell his vineyard to King Ahab?
Who be Shebna, and which bad character e later get?		Who was Shebna, and what bad trait did he begin to develop?
Why we talk sey we go do the work?		This is how my husband and I, along with my brother and his wife, responded to an invitation to take up an assignment.
You don follow God and men fight, and at last, you don win. ' - GEN.		You have contended with God and with men and you have at last prevailed. " - GEN.
E teach e disciples make they no de suspect other people or treat them anyhow. E no only tell them, but e still show them example.		Second, by his teaching and example, Jesus showed his disciples that they must overcome suspicion or intolerance toward others.
E get one time wey people wey think sey na dem holy pass come dey talk sey Jesus too dey eat and drink. But Jesus correct dem. - Luke 7: 33 - 36.		And on another occasion, he rejected the self - righteous views of those who criticized him for eating and drinking. - Luke 7: 33 - 36.
E dey hungry us to see the time wey Jesus go come do everything wey God get for mind. - Mark 13: 26, 27.		We eagerly anticipate what the Lord 's coming will mean for us and for the accomplishment of God 's purpose. - Mark 13: 26, 27.
Na so e still be today.		Likewise, the work and the love we show for will never be forgotten.
How Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael and Azariah take show sey na only dem dey worship?		How did Hebrew youths in Babylon demonstrate their exclusive devotion to?
Wetin Isaiah 46: 10, 11 and 55: 11 make us dey sure of?		What assurance do we find at Isaiah 46: 10, 11 and 55: 11?
Wetin make Timothy believe the truth about Jesus Christ?		How do we know that Timothy was persuaded to believe the good news about Jesus?
Which problem dem our brothers and sisters dey face?		What trials do some of our brothers and sisters face?
Whether we believe am or we no believe am, where we come from dey affect us well well.		Whether we realize it or not, we are all deeply influenced by our culture.
Wetin Joseph suffer?		What injustices did Joseph experience?
Because Jesus dey support God government, e go soon destroy bad government and save people. ( Rev.		In the near future, Christ will take the lead in conquering the nations in support of God 's sovereignty and in defending 's people.
Better Story About Us Wey Don Happen		From Our Archives
E go help the person dey serve well again, and comot hand from the bad thing wey e do. ( Gal.		Second, this arrangement fortifies repentant wrongdoers to remain in God 's care and to avoid a pattern of sin.
After, the elders praise the husband as e de try.		Later the elders commended the husband for his efforts.
So, if person do wetin you no like, make you first ask yourself: ' I fit forget am?		So the first thing to ask yourself when somebody treats you in a way that could seem unkind or disrespectful is: ' Can I overlook this?
After dem judge the matter for court, dem come sey Nicholas go stay prison for ten years.		He was tried by a military court and sentenced to ten years in jail.
After some days pass, two women come my house.		Then a few days later, two women came to my house.
Ahab tell Naboth sey make e give am im farm so that e go give Naboth another better farm or money, if na that one e want. But Naboth no gree.		When Ahab offered to purchase Naboth 's vineyard or to give him a better vineyard in its place, Naboth refused.
All of us get wetin we fit give to support the work wey organization dey do for our time.		All of us can have a share in supporting the work that is accomplishing in these last days.
And I still dey beg sey make e help me. "		And I continue to rely on through prayer. "
And after everything, this kind people go still be like ' person wey dey try to catch breeze. ' - Eccl.		It pushes people to outdo one another, breeds jealousy, and in the end, proves to be " a chasing after the wind. " - Eccl.
As e dey go back, e come see one old man wey come from Bethel.		On his way home, the prophet unexpectedly met up with an old man from nearby Bethel.
Because dem don do wetin no like, e judge dem as bad people.		Because the first human pair had disobeyed, they stood before him as condemned rebels.
Because of that one, dem come sell am make e be slave.		Then they sold Joseph into slavery.
Bible let us know why we suppose dey tell people better word every time.		It should not surprise us that the Bible emphasizes the need for regular encouragement.
Bible talk about this one when e talk say the dragon drag some stars from heaven. ( Gen. 6: 1 - 4; Jude 6; Rev.		The Bible reveals this truth by symbolically portraying the dragon as dragging a third of the stars of heaven with him in his fall.
Brother Nikolai tell us wetin happen for there. E sey: " Policeman ask me where we dey get our book from.		He related what happened next: " The agent asked where we got our literature.
But, Bible show sey, even young children fit understand wetin Bible talk and dem fit value am.		However, the Bible shows that even relatively young children can grasp and appreciate Bible truths.
But, Hushai no leave David. E ready to die for David and do wetin go scatter Absalom plan.		However, Hushai remained loyal, as one who was willing to risk his life and accomplish a mission that would thwart the conspiracy.
But after they don learn the truth, they go choose who they go serve.		But after they learn the truth, each one makes a choice as to whom he or she will serve.
But e dey hard us to control ourself because sin dey our body.		Humans, however, are imperfect and therefore struggle to maintain self - control.
But e go help the woman fit do the work wey God get for am as wife, when e sey: ' E no good make only the man [ Adam ] continue to dey stay.		It actually helps her to fulfill the role God had in mind for a wife when he said: " It is not good for the man [ Adam ] to continue to be alone.
But na only God Kingdom go fit comot all this kind wahala. - Eccl.		Only God 's Kingdom will bring permanent relief from oppression and injustice. - Eccl.
But small time, anybody wey no take the correction wey God dey give am, go suffer put. ( Prov.		But that foolish attitude will soon catch up with the wicked.
Cornelius na the first Christian wey e no be Jew. When apostle Peter de welcome this man for congregation, e talk say: " God no de do partial. "		When the apostle Peter welcomed the first Gentile, Cornelius, into the Christian congregation, he said: " God is not partial. "
Croix for Caribbean island.		Croix.
E fit use im angel take help us. - Heb.		He can use his angels in our behalf. - Heb.
E get one girl wey im name na Olivia.		I had always been afraid that if I worked the Bible into a conversation, people would view me as a fanatic.
E no know sey wetin e do bad well well?		Could he not see the seriousness of his conduct?
E promise Abraham sey im pikin dem go get the Promise Land, and do plenty miracle so that dem go fit enter the Land.		He promised Abraham that his descendants would inherit the Promised Land, and performed mighty deeds to fulfill that promise.
E talk say make our love for God " no be for mouth. "		However, we will make wise choices if we apply the apostle Paul 's inspired counsel to let our love for God " be without hypocrisy. "
E tell dem sey: " Make we dey think about how we go take help each other so that we go show love and do better work. Make we no dey miss our meeting as some people dey do, but make we dey encourage ourself, especially as the day don dey near. " ( Heb. 10: 24, 25 ) Wetin make Paul give dem this advice? E no reach five years before dem know why.		He told them: " Let us consider one another so as to incite to love and fine works, not forsaking our meeting together, as some have the custom, but encouraging one another, and all the more so as you see the day drawing near. "
Everything wey our earth produce, we go share am together.		A new system of sharing earth 's bounties will be a way of life.
For 1957 when dem sell WBBR radio station wey dey Stalen Island, I work small for Bethel wey dey Brooklyn.		When the WBBR facilities on Staten Island were sold in 1957, I served at Brooklyn Bethel for a short time.
For afternoon, the people go give us food.		We were given lunch - a frozen prepackaged meal called a TV dinner that Gloria and I shared before leaving.
For example, we no go try jump from high place because we know sey we go fall and we fit die.		Trying to defy the law of gravity might cost us our life!
Get am for mind sey ready to help you if you allow am.		Keep in mind, however, that will help you if you let him.
How God people take dey show sey dem really get faith, and na who dey make am happen?		What powerful demonstration of faith do we see today, and who deserves the credit for this?
How Job take show sey e support as King? But wetin e no do well?		How did Job 's integrity under trial support 's sovereignty; yet, in what way did Job fall short?
How Psalm 37: 25 and Hebrews 13: 5 fit help papa and mama?		How can Psalm 37: 25 and Hebrews 13: 5 help parents?
How people for this area de see our preaching work?		What is the preaching territory like?
How that one fit happen?		How so?
I dey quick obey and support brothers wey dey lead us? '		Am I quick to accept and support the direction given by the brothers taking the lead? '
I no fit thank finish for how e take use me do im work for this place. '		To have had a small part in 's work on these islands is a privilege beyond words.
If my Bible students or return visits see the kind film or music wey I de watch, they go believe say I de do wetin I de teach? '		If my Bible students or return visits saw the entertainment I choose, would they think that I practice what I preach? '
If we dey put hand for this kind thing, e fit make us dey shame for ourself. E fit make us no dey do well for work. E fit make our family no happy, e fit scatter our marriage and e fit even make person kill imself.		No wonder the practice of viewing pornography has harmful results - such as deep feelings of shame, low productivity in the workplace, unhappy family life, divorce, and suicide.
If we do this one, we fit dey sure of one thing: no go ever allow make Satan do us anything wey go make us no get everlasting life. - Read Psalm 34: 7.		If we do our best to speak and act in harmony with God 's will, we can be confident that will not allow the Devil to do us any lasting harm. - Read Psalm 34: 7.
If we want correct people and we want make e reach their heart, wetin we go do?		If we want our discipline to reach hearts, what must we do?
James write for Bible sey: ' Mek endurance finish im work, so that una go complete and una go mature for everything, nothing go comot. '		The disciple James was inspired to write: " Let endurance complete its work, so that you may be complete and sound in all respects, not lacking in anything. "
don bless our work for Kyrgyzstan. Now, we don many pass 5,000 publishers.		The organization has grown, and we now number well over 5,000 publishers.
Jesus tell them say: " Make wuna no work for food wey e no go last. Instead, work for food wey e go last and wey e de give everlasting life. " - John 6: 25 - 27.		Work, not for the food that perishes, but for the food that remains for everlasting life, " he told them. - John 6: 25 - 27.
Like Jacob, Rachel, and Joseph wetin we go do so that go bless us?		In imitating Jacob, Rachel, and Joseph, we should put forth what effort to receive 's blessing?
Like Jesus, Witness people for the whole world love other people.		Throughout the earth, 's express godly love toward others.
My papa name na William and my mama name na Jean, dem be Witness.		My parents, William and Jean, were devoted worshippers of.
Na Watchtower be one of the main things wey dey use teach us today.		The weekly study of the Bible with the help of The Watchtower is a principal means by which we are taught.
Na im you start to run; you run go one of your friend house wey near there.		When you quicken your pace, so does your pursuer.
Na inside this house they born me		The log cabin where I was born
Na so e still be when our person die. If we do something about am, as time dey go, the pain go dey go.		Yes, like a physical wound, the pain of an emotional wound may gradually ease over time if it is given tender care.
Na wetin happen to one man for Bible wey im name na Naboth. This man live for King Ahab time. - 1 Ki.		This was the experience of a faithful servant of named Naboth, who lived during the reign of King Ahab of Israel. - 1 Ki.
No be ' colporteur ' ( pioneer ) work carry am go France but, na soldier work Germany send am go do for France.		He was not in France as a colporteur ( full - time preacher ) but, rather, as a German soldier.
One of their oga come arrange to give us water for the whole convention program. E still send soldiers come make dem build two big better shade wey we go use do kitchen and wey we go stay chop. The man do well for us and belle sweet am for wetin e do.		I contacted the military, and a kind officer gladly arranged to supply drinking water for the entire convention and sent soldiers to erect two large tents for our kitchen and cafeteria.
One way we take dey get sense from God na when we dey take im correction.		One way that we acquire wisdom from God is by accepting his discipline.
People wey dey use all their mind wait for am go happy. "		Happy are all those keeping in expectation of him. "
So, make the way we dey live our life everyday show sey we value this better thing wey God do for us.		We should highly value the gift of God 's undeserved kindness and let it affect our life daily.
So make people wey want marry remember sey to end their marriage no suppose come their mind at all. - Mark 10: 9.		Thus, couples entering marriage must have the view that divorce is not an option. - Mark 10: 9.
Some of dem don threaten our brothers sey if dem no do work wey go make dem dey miss meeting, dem no go help dem again.		Some agencies have threatened to cut off assistance or deny our brothers asylum if they refuse to accept employment that requires them to miss meetings.
The brother talk sey: " I like to preach because na wetin sey make we do.		He says: " I like preaching the good news because it is what asks us to do.
The time wey Jesus dey on top mountain dey teach ( Sermon on the Mount ), e give correct advice wey go help us know wetin we go do for matter wey fit cause quarrel or if quarrel don already dey.		In his Sermon on the Mount, Jesus gave excellent advice about handling disagreements or potential conflicts.
Think about wetin Proverbs chapter 7 talk about one man wey no get sense.		Anyone facing a situation similar to that of Kim would do well to ponder the case of the naive young man described in Proverbs chapter 7.
This one come make am want learn more about Bible. This one no show sey Bible really get power? - Acts 19: 20.		Would you not agree that God 's Word exerts power in our ministry? - Acts 19: 20.
This one go help am dey put the main thing for mind, and e mind go come down. - Ps. 94: 19, ftn.		Doing so would help him maintain the proper perspective and, in turn, provide comfort. - Ps. 94: 19, ftn.
This one go help you near pass before, and self go near you. - Jas.		This will help you to draw close to God, and then he will draw close to you. - Jas.
This time I decide say I must learn more.		Now I was determined to learn more.
Today, people wey them de serve de enjoy true peace among theirself.		Today, 's people enjoy a spiritual paradise that is filled with peace.
True true, if we put God for mind for everything wey we dey do, we dey sure sey things go better for us. - Prov.		Yes, when we give attention to God in all our ways, we can have the best outcome. - Prov.
We go learn why we suppose dey encourage each other, especially now.		We will see why it is more urgent than ever to give encouragement to one another.
We still dey support the congregation wey dey Bronx.		And we continue to support a congregation in the same general area of the Bronx.
We suppose praise dem for this thing wey dem do.		For doing so, they are to be commended.
Wetin dem do dey Volume VI for Millennial Dawn ( 1904 ) and e still dey August 1906, Zion 's Watch Tower for German language.		This course of action was suggested in Volume VI of the Millennial Dawn series ( 1904 ) and also in the German edition of Zion 's Watch Tower of August 1906.
Wetin go help us stand up again?		What will help him to succeed?
Wetin make David praise am?		Her name was Abigail.
Wetin we go gain if we dey think like Jesus?		How will learning to think like Christ help us?
When our mama die, my big sister don already be senior for secondary school.		That was when my dad began studying.
When we go visit British Museum, Brother Schroeder show us some old paper wey dem write Bible put.		During a tour of the British Museum, Brother Schroeder pointed out to us some Bible manuscripts.
When we love God, the blessing wey we de get, pass anything wey money or property fit give us. - Isa.		We proudly bear and use his name, knowing that loving him is far more rewarding than loving money or things. - Isa.
Which Bible verse don make your mind come down?		Which scriptures do you find particularly comforting?
Which example of God servant wey do wetin e like we get and wetin help dem?		What examples do we have of servants of God who refused to compromise their integrity, and what gave them the strength to do so?
Why e good make we wear all the part of the soldier uniform?		Why is it vital that we wear each piece?
William na elder, and e don pass 20 years since when e don be elder.		William, a respected elder for over 20 years, advises newly appointed men: " Love the brothers.
Yes, time don reach to hear our sweet Kingdom song and to ready our mind for the convention talk dem.		It is time to listen quietly to the beautiful music of the Watchtower orchestra and, most important, prepare our mind and heart for the talks that will follow.
You go continue to dey allow use you?		Will you keep making spiritual progress?
I Know Sey E Go Come Back to Life Again, ' Dec.		Keep a firearm for protection from humans? July
David talk sey: ' Glory and respect dey for where God dey. Power and joy dey im house. ' ( 1 Chron.		David expressed it this way: " In his [ God 's ] presence are majesty and splendor; strength and joy are in his dwelling place. "
Na true sey Bible talk sey na Satan dey control the government wey dey this world. But e no talk sey na Satan dey control everybody wey dey there.		Although the Bible says that Satan controls human governments, it never says that he controls each individual who has authority in a government.
Philip and the brothers wey just become Christian go don happy well well sey the governing body help dem.		How Philip himself as well as those he had converted must have been encouraged by this support from the governing body!
For example, if person want make the tree wey e plant produce well, e go sitdown take care of am. So if person want get this better character wey God spirit dey help person get, e go allow God spirit to dey direct im life. - Ps.		Just as a tree will bear fruit when it is properly tended, so a person will manifest the fruitage of the spirit when holy spirit flows freely in his life. - Ps.
As draw us come im side, we come understand wetin e want for us, and we know how we go take live our life. ( Col.		As intelligent creatures who have been drawn by, we understand God 's will for us.
Jesus warn e disciples say: " Time de come when anybody wey e kill wuna go think say e don do God work. "		Jesus warned his followers: " The hour is coming when everyone who kills you will think he has offered a sacred service to God. "
Na two things Jesus talk sey we need to dey free. ( 1 ) We go follow the truth wey e teach, and ( 2 ) we go become im disciple.		Jesus ' direction for gaining true freedom involves two requirements: First, accept the truth that he taught, and second, become his disciple.
We dey work so that we fit get money to take care of ourself and support our preaching work.		Secular work is simply a means to an end. We work to provide our basic material needs and to support our ministry.
How Governing Body take dey encourage all of us?		What encouragement does the Governing Body today give to the international brotherhood?
How we go take show sey we dey keep our promise everyday?		In what ways should our dedication vow affect our daily lives?
Which problem many children dey face when dem pack go new country?		What problem do many immigrant children experience?
Which special work give Solomon?		What important assignment did Solomon receive?
Eccl. 3: 12, 13 ) All of us dey enjoy to breath fresh air.		Who would not delight in taking an invigorating breath of fresh air, eating his favorite food, or awakening from a restful night of sleep?
After Solomon die for 997 B.C.E., Rehoboam travel from Jerusalem go north for Shechem.		Solomon died in 997 B.C.E.
So because of that one, dem no happy.		The Jews did not feel like singing.
If we want sabi people wey come from another place well, wetin we suppose do?		What initiatives can we take in order to feel closer to those from another culture?
For example, see wetin happen to Jim wey be elder for one congregation. E no gree with wetin other elders for im congregation talk for one matter.		Consider the experience of a Christian elder named Jim who disagreed with his fellow elders about a congregation matter.
Big work dey wait for Joshua because e go carry Israel people go war make dem fit collect the Promise Land.		Joshua was about to take on the huge responsibility of leading the Israelites in the conquest of the Promised Land.
Make we still try dey pray for people wey make us vex. This one go show sey we forgive dem from our mind. - Luke 6: 27, 28.		We can also demonstrate our sincere forgiveness by praying for those who sin against us. - Luke 6: 27, 28.
Some of dem na Jeremiah, Baruch, Ebed - melech, and Rechab people.		Among those few were Jeremiah, Baruch, Ebed - melech, and the Rechabites.
ALL true Christian get one better thing wey dem dey wait for!		WHAT a wonderful hope true Christians share!
Abeg, no enter im trap! ( Eph. 6: 11, ftn. )		Do not fall for his devious schemes!
And this time, na wetin e still do be that.		And this time was no different.
Another thing be sey, e pass 70 times wey the people wey write the second part for Bible wey dem dey call Greek Scriptures, talk something about Abraham.		Additionally, the writers of the Christian Greek Scriptures refer to Abraham more than 70 times.
Anytime wey you get that kind matter and you no know wetin you go do, mek you tell the elders.		Let the elders know if you are in a difficult situation.
As dem dey go, dem come see some enemy for road. So that dem go quick run from their enemy, dem trowey the man for Elisha grave.		Rushing to escape their enemies, they threw the dead man into the grave or tomb where Elisha 's bones lay.
As we learn from the topic before this one, Bible tell us sey Asa use all im mind serve.		As we noted in the preceding article, God examined Asa 's heart and judged it to be complete with Him.
Ask yourself this question: ' The way I dey live my life dey show sey I believe wetin Jesus talk?		Ask yourself: ' Do my priorities and decisions reflect that I truly believe Jesus ' words?
Because things about God no dey make sense to dem.		Because their spiritual senses are dulled.
Bible tell us sey " faith dey come from wetin person hear. " ( Rom.		Faith " follows the thing heard. "
Bible tell us why e good make love dey marriage.		The Bible emphasizes the importance of love.
Bible verse wey match our preaching go touch the person pass anything wey we talk.		A well - chosen scripture will likely be much more powerful than anything we might say.
But, get another thing for mind.		However, directed otherwise.
But March 15, 2015 Watchtower come explain why our book no dey too talk sey one thing for Bible mean another thing ( antitype ).		However, the March 15, 2015, issue of The Watchtower explained why our recent publications seldom mention prophetic types and antitypes: " Where the Scriptures teach that an individual, an event, or an object is typical of something else, we accept it as such.
But Peter still tell Christians say: " Respect all kind of people, love brothers for the whole world. " ( 1 Pet.		But Peter also exhorted Christians: " Honor men of all sorts, have love for the whole association of brothers. "
But na only if I go use my own Bible, I go gree mek we study Bible together! "		I will agree to study with you, but only if I can use my own Bible! "
E de direct us for the right way. This one go help us know the thing wey e good or bad as e dey for Bible.		It is an inner sense of right or wrong that can guide us in the right direction.
E just be like say we de tell the people say: ' We bring one fine gift for wuna.		In effect, we say to those to whom we preach: ' We brought a beautiful gift for you.
E tell how e dey feel for inside and e beg am. So, when we dey problem, make we no only tell the problem.		Similarly, in the face of tribulation, we need to do more than simply mention to how we feel.
Elders dey check some things to make sure sey person wey sey e want baptize, don reach to baptize.		Considering the steps that the elders take to be sure that a person is qualified for baptism, it would be extremely rare for anyone 's baptism to be invalid.
Even after Wycliffe die, the church leaders still call am enemy of the church.		Even after his death, Wycliffe was declared a heretic.
Even if you no dey the country, e go just be like sey you dey there.		It 's like traveling without leaving your city.
Even people wey don grow finish before dem baptize dey face some kind problem wey dem no put mind sey go happen.		Even those who got baptized as adults face many unanticipated tests of faith.
Even though sey e don pass 60 years after that time, Blossom talk sey: " I no go fit ever forget that night! "		More than 60 years later, Blossom stated: " You can be sure, in all the ages to come, I 'll never forget that night! "
Even though sey the Law allow dem end their marriage, dem no get right to end am anyhow.		Divorce was allowed, but it too was regulated.
For example, one husband and wife for Denmark use aeroplane and bird teach their pikin.		For instance, a couple in Denmark compared airplanes to birds.
Get am for mind sey, if you get the kind faith wey Noah get and you obey, e go take care of you. - Phil.		If you imitate the faith and obedience of Noah, you can be confident that will care for you. - Phil.
How our God take be ' one '?		In what ways is our God " one "?
How we take know?		How do we know that?
I go make you strong, yes, I go help you, I go really hold you with my right hand wey good.		I will fortify you, yes, I will help you, I will really hold on to you with my right hand of righteousness.
If we dey think like Jesus, how e go take show for our life?		How will being spiritually - minded affect our life?
If we know where we suppose do reach, how e go make us no trust ourself?		How can modesty help us to avoid becoming self - reliant?
If we no dey do pass ourself, na im be sey we dey sofri check ourself well to see whether wetin we dey do match wetin want, because im na holy God. And we know sey na only fit direct us to waka for the correct way.		Our modesty includes making a humble evaluation of ourselves when compared with 's purity and holiness, for we are completely dependent on him for the best guidance.
If you see sey e dey hard you to forgive, you fit follow the advice wey dey Matthew 18: 15.		If after some effort it seems that more is needed, could Matthew 18: 15 be applied in principle?
Im brothers plan bad for am, dem come sell am as slave. After, when e dey Egypt, im oga wife come lie for im head. Dem come finally put am for prison.		As a result of a conspiracy by his brothers and the later treachery of his master 's wife, he found himself in an Egyptian prison.
see everything wey dey happen to Joseph, but e no stop am.		Still, He did not intervene.
want make you dey talk to am.		wants to hear from you.
Joseph fine no be small! Potiphar wife come dey eye am.		Potiphar 's wife set her eyes on Joseph, who was " well - built and handsome, " and she tried to seduce him.
Later, after about one year, Brother Victor Vinter pack come the place wey dem dey call Sokuluk.		About one year later, Victor Vinter moved to Sokuluk.
Make we come talk wetin happen and how we fit use am check whether we ready to forgive. E go still help us see sey when we forgive, we dey copy how take dey judge matter.		Let us consider that account and see how it will help us to examine our attitude about forgiveness and deepen our understanding of how forgiveness relates to 's view of justice.
Make you learn from Timothy, and you self go be blessing to people.		Make it your aim to learn from Timothy. Then you too will be a blessing to God 's people.
Many people hear the good news.		A widespread witness was given.
Na bad news be this?		Is that sad news?
Na for Bethel I start special full time work. So after 40 years, e sweet me sey I come back.		It was a real joy to be back where I had started my special full - time service over 40 years earlier.
Na the same thing we tell am, we no change mouth. So e sey make we use horse take dey carry people wey injure for the war go hospital.		When we repeated our story, the general ordered, " Then take a mule and carry the wounded from the battlefield to the hospital. "
Nothing fit sweet person reach to dey use plenty time preach.		What greater joy could there be than putting in whole days at a time in the Lord 's service?.
One 19 - year - old brother for United States, talk about that two brochure, e talk sey: " The two brochure don help me well well.		About the two brochures just mentioned, a 19 - year - old brother in the United States said: " These have been invaluable to me.
One papa for Japan wey get two pikin talk sey: " Me and my wife dey spend time with our pikin dem well well.		My wife and I simply gave our children a lot of attention, " said a father of two in Japan.
One thing be sey, no force your family make dem listen. But make the way you dey teach dem, be like the way una dey talk every day.		Moreover, such discussions should not be forced but should be natural and spontaneous - a part of your everyday conversation.
Papa and mama wey dey serve still need to get strong mind.		Christian parents also need courage.
SONG: 56, 89		SONGS: 56, 89
Satan de shoot us with some ' arrows wey e get fire. ' E fit lie say no love you and e no fit love you.		Some of the " burning arrows " that Satan might fire at you are lies about - that He does not care about you and that you are unlovable.
Since you dey serve, you go want make your pikin know the things wey dey Bible.		As a Christian parent, you want your child to know the holy writings, which today include the Hebrew Scriptures as well as the Christian Greek Scriptures.
So, papa and mama wey wise no go force their pikin to baptize.		Thus, discerning parents do not pressure their children to get baptized.
Still try put am for mind sey you go read the whole Bible finish.		Also, make it your goal to read the entire Bible.
That one go make im husband love am well well.		Now his love for her will grow.
That time, Noah and Job don die tey tey.		By that time, Noah and Job had been dead for centuries, and their record of faithfulness was in God 's memory.
The brother or sister fit dey dash people things pass you. You don see how e dey happy anytime e dey dash things to people wey don old, wey dey sick and wey no get?		If he has often shown generosity to others, whereas you tend to be a bit tightfisted, why not note the joy that comes from giving to the elderly, the sick, or the needy?
The coordinator of the body of elders for im congregation talk sey: " Hans quiet well well and you go like near am. "		He is one of the meekest brothers you could ever wish to meet, " says the coordinator of the body of elders in the congregation to which Hans belongs.
The place wey e read na 2 Corinthians 1: 3, 4, wey talk sey: ' The Father wey dey pity person well well and the God wey dey make our mind come down, dey help us anytime wey we dey for wahala. '		He read 2 Corinthians 1: 3, 4, which says: " The Father of tender mercies and the God of all comfort. comforts us in all our trials. "
The prophet no carry shoulder up, so e do wetin send am. The message vex the king well well but save the prophet from the king hand. - 1 Ki.		The humble prophet faithfully delivered God 's message, and protected his servant from Jeroboam 's violent wrath. - 1 Ki.
The wahala wey Daniel face.		Challenges that Daniel faced.
They even ready to die for each other. "		They are ready even to die for one another. "
Think am sey Euodia invite some brothers and sisters come get together for im house and e no invite Syntyche.		Suppose Euodia invited some brothers and sisters to her home for a meal and pleasant association.
Think am sey na you Paul dey talk to, when e sey: ' No let sin continue to rule as king for your body make you no come dey do the things wey your body want. ' ( Rom.		Now think of yourself in the light of Paul 's words: " Do not let sin continue to rule as king in your mortal bodies so that you should obey their desires. "
Think am sey you invite person come meeting and e come.		Imagine that one day, before the public talk, you notice that someone whom you invited has come to the Kingdom Hall.
This pioneer dem travel go many place where Witness people never preach before.		These pioneers visited many places that had never before received a witness.
True true, we no go fit learn everything about finish.		Of course, we will always have something new to learn about.
WE DE serve and we want make e bless us, no be so?		WE SERVE and want his favor, do we not?
We know sey when person die dem no fit suffer or punish am again.		Of course, it was not possible to punish someone who was no longer alive.
Wetin Babylon people do wey show sey dem want make Daniel dey do things like dem and serve their juju?		How did the Babylonians attempt to assimilate Daniel into their culture and religion?
Wetin come help am change im mind?		How was she finally helped to begin feeling truly loved by God?
Wetin dey Bible dey help us worship only and dey protect us from things wey dey make many people fear. ( Ps.		Bible principles protect us from sharing in false worship and from superstitions that enslave many people.
Wetin e do show sey e dey think far and e know wetin fit happen.		He was farsighted and practical.
Wetin fit be the reason why help Daniel get high position? really help Daniel.		How may Daniel have been a blessing to his fellow Jews?
Wetin go help papa and mama fit train their pikin well?		What can help Christian parents succeed in raising their children to serve?
When I dey Madrid I come make the second promise.		In Madrid, I took my second set of vows to become a nun.
When I dey circuit work, I come see say e advice help me.		I had been in the circuit work for only a short time when I realized that his counsel was surely needed.
When we dey forgive people, e dey make all of us continue to get one mind ( Check paragraph 12, 13 )		When we are forgiving, we promote unity ( See paragraphs 12, 13 )
When we don know this things finish, we go come copy im example.		Then we need to follow in his footsteps.
Which kind suffer some of God servant suffer because of their faith?		What trials did some of the prophets endure because of their faith?
Why e be like that? Matthew talk about Joseph pass Mary. E tell us wetin Joseph do when e know sey Mary get belle.		Matthew focuses on Joseph, such as his reaction to Mary 's pregnancy and the divine messages to flee to Egypt and later return.
Why faith no be just to know wetin get for mind for us?		Explain why faith is more than just a mental process.
Why we suppose praise young people wey dey organization?		Why do our young people deserve warm praise?
Why you like the way take dey rule?		What touches your heart about 's way of ruling?
You dey wonder whether the person really understand wetin e dey hear and whether e go fit change im life.		In effect, you are hearing the talk through his ears.
how other brothers and sisters dey feel when dem dey see us for meeting.		how we help others when we attend meetings.
If we dey control ourself, we no go too get problem like other people.		First, it has been observed that people who are able to control their impulses generally have fewer major problems.
For Asa mind, im plan don work!		So Asa 's strategy worked - at first glance!
Wetin the brothers wey Peter treat like this go do?		How would the Gentile Christians who were personally affected by Peter 's mistake respond to the injustice?
[CONTENT_REMOVED]		See opening picture. )
After Peter use sword cut the high priest slave ear, Jesus tell am sey: ' Put your sword for where e dey before. '		After Peter wielded one of the swords against the high priest 's slave, Jesus commanded Peter: " Return your sword to its place. "
Because picture or story dey stay for pikin head well well, e good make papa and mama dey use am teach their pikin.		So parents, try to use illustrations liberally in your teaching.
But no see us like that, e see the better thing wey dey inside us.		But saw a potential for good in us.
Wetin dey happen among us today?		What equalizing of finances is taking place among God 's people?
From that time, Samuel come dey stay for house and na there e grow.		There, " the boy Samuel continued growing up before. "
Why e good make we take am sofri sofri with other people?		Why should we be patient with one another?
Isaiah still talk sey this Person go be ' leader and commander. '		Isaiah foretold that this One would become " a leader and commander. "
Young people need this kind sense to get life.		That kind of wisdom is necessary for salvation.
Story About People Life - People Wey First Be Sister for Church Don Become Witness		Life Story - Former Nuns Become True Spiritual Sisters
Different Different Topic for 2017 Watchtower		Subject Index for The Watchtower 2017
Wetin that one mean?		What does that mean?
We self dey sure sey, if we put faith for, e go do wetin e promise us when e talk sey: ' I no go ever leave you, and I no go ever forget you. '		We, in turn, can be certain that if we manifest heartfelt faith in, he will keep his promise: " I will never leave you, and I will never abandon you. "
But, anyone wey we choose, make we make sure sey e no come be number one thing for our life.		Whatever entertainment we may choose, we want to keep it in its proper place.
Mek Endurance Finish Im Work '		Let Endurance Complete Its Work "
APOSTLE PAUL talk say Christians de fight war like soldier.		THE apostle Paul likened our life as Christians to that of soldiers engaged in hand - to - hand combat.
After many years wey Jesus don comot Satan from heaven, e still dey talk lie about people wey dey serve God.		Many years later, when Satan was thrown out of heaven, he was still accusing God 's faithful servants constantly.
And ' e ready to help us anytime time when trouble dey. ' - Ps.		He is truly " a help that is readily found in times of distress. " - Ps.
As I start the business, I go register am for tax office. " - 2 Cor.		And from day one, I legally registered my company and paid all my taxes. " - 2 Cor.
As dem dey grow, dem come like the family study, and we dey always allow dem talk wetin dey their mind.		They grew to love the study, and we allowed them to express themselves freely.
As we don really know wetin happen to us that time, we come fit understand some kind things wey Bible talk about.		A more accurate understanding of our theocratic history has led to a clearer comprehension of certain events recorded in the Bible.
Before Adam and Eve die because of wetin dem do, dem don already get plenty pikin. ( Gen.		Before sin and imperfection brought about the death of Adam and Eve, the couple produced sons and daughters.
Before dem scatter Jerusalem, Ezekiel and Jeremiah warn the people, as Isaiah don do before.		During the time leading up to the destruction of Jerusalem, Ezekiel served as a watchman along with Jeremiah, just as Isaiah had previously done.
Before we know, we start to like Kenya and enjoy our preaching for there.		We quickly grew fond of Kenya and our delightful ministry there.
Bible give better advice about sex to people wey don marry.		The Bible gives sound counsel that can help a couple to have a balanced view of the marital due.
Bible no tell us whether na Nero judge Paul case by imself or e give another person to judge am.		The Bible does not say whether Nero himself heard and judged Paul or he assigned someone else to hear Paul 's appeal and report to Nero.
Bible sey make we be like small pikin for bad thing, but make we dey think like person wey don grow.		It comes as no surprise, therefore, that moral standards are being abandoned.
Bible show sey the new people wey start to follow Jesus know sey e good make dem baptize.		The Bible record provides abundant evidence that in the first century, new disciples of Christ understood the significance of baptism.
Bible tell us wetin come happen: ' As Gideon come reach Jordan, e cross am.		The Bible tells us what happened next: " Gideon then came to the Jordan and crossed it.
Brothers wey dey preach for business area, dey preach to one mechanic for inside mechanic workshop.		Brothers working business territory witness to a mechanic in an auto repair garage.
But, e fit change, and e really change.		Yet, he could and did change.
But and Jesus go help us and give us the sense wey we need to take train dem.		But and his beloved Son will support us and give us wisdom to provide such training.
But bless their preaching work.		But blessed their preaching work.
Dalene wey we don talk about before, talk sey: " Sometimes when sisters come visit me to tell me sorry, I dey ask dem if dem go like pray with me.		Sometimes when sisters have come to comfort me, " recalls Dalene, " I have asked them if they are willing to say a prayer.
Dem come arrest am, and dem sey e go stay prison for 20 years. Even when Hans dey prison im bad character no change.		In an alcohol - induced rage, he killed his girlfriend, for which he received a 20 - year prison sentence.
Dem dey use am do our book and video. And when our brothers dey wahala, na our contribution dem dey use help dem. Dem still dey use am build our Kingdom Hall.		In addition, the preparation and translation of literature and videos, the assistance with disaster relief efforts, and the construction of new Kingdom Halls are all cared for by our voluntary contributions.
Dem really happy when dem see sey e get.		To their great relief, he did.
E come later dey serve as pioneer.		Later, he began serving as a pioneer.
E get many example wey show how Bible, holy spirit, and our book don help our brothers and sisters to fight bad character.		There are many examples of how God 's Word, his spirit, and our Christian publications have helped Christians to overcome wrong desires.
E still dey carry bag of magazine go post office. Na from the post office dem dey send am go different different congregation for United State.		There were also sacks of magazines to be brought to the post office for mailing to congregations throughout the United States.
E tell im husband sey e fit come meet am for there when e close.		She told him that she could join him at the gathering afterward.
Enjoy Your New Congregation, Nov.		I Loved Baseball More Than Anything!
Even if problem dey the marriage, dem no go just end am anyhow.		They do not seek an unscriptural way out of a difficult marriage.
Even if that verse no dey talk about the Bible wey we know today, wetin e talk still concern the message wey dey Bible.		That verse does not specifically refer to the Bible as we know it; yet, the inspired words apply by extension to the Bible 's message.
Even though dem no dey pay Sara the kind money wey dem dey pay am before, e still dey pioneer.		Although Sara does not make as much money as she once did, she is able to continue pioneering.
Everybody for that family come later baptize.		That entire family eventually got baptized.
For 1943, I enter one new school wey dem just start for our meeting wey be Theocratic Ministry School.		In 1943, I joined the Theocratic Ministry School, which had just become a feature of our meetings.
For example, try run from anything wey fit make you do wetin God no like.		For instance, avoid situations that are known to be tempting.
For there you go see sey na the same rope tie person wey get long throat with person wey dey serve another god.		Note that greediness is linked to idolatry.
God the things wey be God own. ' - MATTHEW 22: 21.		God 's things to God. " - MATTHEW 22: 21.
Governing body, around 1950		The governing body, 1950 ' s
Hans baptize when e dey prison. After e don stay prison for 17 years and 6 months, dem come release am.		After having served 17 - and - a - half years of his sentence, Hans was released from prison as a baptized Christian.
How dey look the different different government wey we get today?		What does think about human governments?
How take show sey im na God wey dey tell person better word to make im mind strong?		How has proved to be a God who gives encouragement?
How love take big pass faith?		Compared with love, how important is faith?
How mature sisters fit show sey dem get strong mind?		How can older sisters show courage?
How we fit show sey we value Bible?		How can we show our appreciation for 's Word?
How you go take get work wey go help you pioneer?		How can you prepare to earn a living?
I begin get other problem for my life around the time wey Second World War want enter India.		As World War II threatened to engulf India, my world seemed to fall apart.
I happy to send the small size of some of the book The Finished Mystery give some brothers wey dem seize their own.		I had the privilege of mailing pocket - size copies of The Finished Mystery to a number of friends who had lost their copy due to confiscation.
I no really understand everything wey dem talk for there. So I tell myself sey I go comot.		Because I did not really understand all that they were talking about, I decided to leave.
I still see how use my congregation people take help my papa and mama well well.		I also saw the loving support the local congregation gave to my parents.
If e do any serious bad thing, go judge am because e no do wetin e promise. ( Rom.		He will be accountable before and the congregation for any serious sins that he may commit.
If una fry something like akara, let am know sey na because una follow how dem take dey make Akara, na im make the Akara be like this.		After you bake a cake or a batch of cookies, explain the role of the recipe.
If we dey think like Jesus, e go show for how we dey talk, and how we dey behave for work or for school. E go still show for the things wey we dey choose everyday.		Our Christlike thinking will influence our speech, our conduct at work or in school, and the decisions we make each day.
If we do this one, we get hope sey for front, we go dey free from sin and death kpatakpata.		This, in turn, opens up the prospect of being completely liberated from enslavement to sin and death.
If we go put our book and other things for this kind website, e go give apostates and other people chance to talk wetin go fit spoil people mind about organization.		Furthermore, posting our publications on websites that allow comments provides a place for apostates and other critics to sow distrust of 's organization.
If we see sey we don dey do wetin God no like, wetin we go do? E good make we quick trowey those bad character wey no like.		Similarly, we need to act with urgency in obeying the command to strip off habits that are contrary to God 's personality.
organization no dey shake, go protect am and e go last forever. We happy sey we dey the organization.		We are part of a stable, secure, and everlasting organization.
still make sure sey dem write this woman story for Bible. And na the woman name dem dey call that part for Bible.		When she is resurrected, Ruth will learn that her son was part of the line that led to the Messiah.
want make you use ' your sense think ' to show yourself the truth.		wants you to use " your power of reason " to prove the truth to yourself.
Jesus don already talk sey for this last days, plenty problem wey pass us go dey, and people go suffer us well well.		Jesus warned that we would have severe trials and cruel persecution during the last days.
John talk sey Gaius na im friend ' wey e really love. '		John warmly addressed Gaius as " the beloved, whom I truly love. "
Make dem no dey do their work like sey person dey force dem, or because of wetin dem want gain.		Indeed, their doing so reflects their desire to be molded by God and his Son.
Make we see three things wey fit help us.		Let us consider three ways.
Many times, people wey pioneer before dem marry, still continue the pioneer work with their husband or wife. - Rom 16: 3, 4.		[CONTENT_REMOVED]
Micah know sey e no fit change wetin dey happen by imself.		Micah realized that he could not personally change these conditions.
Na only human being God send Jesus make e come die for; no be bird.		Christ 's ransom sacrifice was not provided for any other living creatures.
Na true sey if want comot the problem, e go fit.		Of course, if it be his will, he can simply remove a trial.
Na true sey the ' things wey person get no fit give am life. '		Life does not result from the things [ a man ] possesses.
Na wetin Bible talk go help us know where to praise and respect elders reach.		Rendering proper honor to congregation elders is, of course, to be guided by the perfect and wise principles found in God 's Word.
Nadia come still sey: ' We thank our papa and mama sey dem do wetin dem fit do to teach us their language, and make us stay for congregation wey dey use their language.		Now we 're grateful that our parents worked hard to teach us their language and kept us in the foreign - language congregation.
One better way we take dey show sey we hold tight na to dey do wetin im organization tell us.		An important way that we display loyalty to God is by following the direction we receive from his organization.
One brother wey im wife die talk sey: " When e reach the time wey we dey celebrate our marriage, I think sey e go hard for me before.		I expected my first wedding anniversary to be very traumatic, " relates one brother, " and it was not easy.
One of the people wey write psalm, talk sey, ' See!		The psalmist sang: " Look!
Paul dey tell Hebrew Christian make dem support wetin God get for mind to do.		Paul was urging Hebrew Christians to cooperate with God 's purposes.
Paul write sey: ' dey help me; I no go fear.		Paul wrote: " is my helper; I will not be afraid.
People de enter politics more - more when they see as people de suffer.		Injustice often inflames political passions.
Put God Kingdom as Number One Thing for Your Life, July		Seek the Kingdom, Not Things, July
Roman government register Jew people to make sure say them pay tax. Na this one make Judas from Galilee wey we don talk about, fight Roman government.		In fact, the rebellion of Judas the Galilean, mentioned earlier, was sparked by a registration to ensure that the people paid tribute to Rome.
Satan use snake deceive Eve make e no do wetin, im Papa talk.		Satan the Devil, using a serpent, fooled Eve into disobeying her Father,.
So, e clear sey because na make everything, na im suppose be King for heaven and earth. Nobody fit drag am with am!		Yes, because created all things, he has full right to rule over humans as well as spirit creatures.
So, wetin we suppose do? No be to love and do wetin e tell us? - 1 John 4: 19; 5: 3.		Naturally, it is fitting that we respond to 's love by loving him in return and by obeying his commandments. - 1 John 4: 19; 5: 3.
Tell people about the things wey you don learn as you dey study Bible.		Share interesting points that you have discovered during your study of God 's Word.
That time, some people for the congregation want choose wetin brothers go dey do.		Some in the congregation wanted to make personal choices for others in order to alienate them from the apostles.
The answer go help us know how to bear problem for marriage.		Knowing this will help us to cope.
The first two things go show sey when young people try do wetin dem plan, dem go near more more. The third one go show sey, when person plan wetin e want use im life do for when e still dey young, e go gain.		The first two show that working on spiritual goals strengthens a person 's relationship with; the third highlights the benefit of aiming for theocratic targets early in life.
The place talk sey: " dey patient and e dey sofri wait to show una im favor. E go stand up to show una pity.		It says: " is waiting patiently to show you favor, and he will rise up to show you mercy.
The song sweet well well!		It was so beautiful!
The truth be sey, Jesus load really easy to carry!		Jesus ' yoke is kindly indeed!
The truth be sey, we fit really show sey we love God when we love people, especially our brothers. - 1 John 4: 12, 20.		In fact, love for God is " made perfect in us " when we obey the command to love others, especially our brothers. - 1 John 4: 12, 20.
This one fit don make Saul think sey, ' Make I do something quick quick. '		He must have thought, ' I have to do something - and quickly. '
This one really show how God dey pity person reach. "		Such was God 's gracious way.
We know sey na Satan make Job suffer like that. Satan talk sey Job dey serve God because of the things wey God dey give am.		The cause, we know, was the slanderer Satan, who lyingly accused Job of worshipping God out of self - interest.
Wetin Jesus teach about wetin we suppose put as number one thing?		What valuable lesson did Jesus teach about setting priorities?
Wetin e choose?		He was willing to make a decision, but what do you think of the decision he made?
Wetin fit still help us know how our friendship with strong reach?		To analyze the state of our spirituality, what else may be needed?
Wetin go help you fit endure?		What will help you to endure?
Wetin happen? Im brother Lazarus don die.		Her brother, Lazarus, had died.
Wetin we go talk about for this topic? Why e good make we talk about am?		What will be considered in this article, and why?
When Eunice mama know sey Eunice dey study Bible, e come tell the school principal make e try stop am.		When Eunice 's mother found out that she was studying the Bible, she had the school principal try to dissuade her.
When e come back, e sey: " I know sey my family no hate me, but dem only do wetin and im organization talk. "		I knew that my family did not hate me, " he later said, " but they were obeying and his organization. "
Make una dey wear the new character like cloth for body. ' - COL.		Clothe yourselves with the new personality. " - COL.
Jesus still talk sey e " dey come, " when e talk about things wey go happen before the world end.		The word " comes " here refers to the same event as the " coming " that Jesus mentioned in his prophecy about the time of the end.
Sometimes, we fit see people for congregation wey dey talk anyhow about elders. Make we no let am surprise us.		Second, we should not be surprised if on rare occasions challenges to authority arise in the congregations today.
Like Micah, make e come from our mind or make we ' use better mind wait ' for.		Like Micah, we too need to have " a waiting attitude. "
Instead, make we pray make help us, make we trust am, and make we hold am tight.		Instead, as faithful servants of God, we loyally and prayerfully rely on him.
We dey sure sey no go let the bad things continue to happen when the time to stop dem don reach; e no go add even one day join the day wey e get for mind. - Hab.		We are convinced that will not allow this wicked world to continue for even one day longer than his purpose requires. - Hab.
Jesus go destroy Satan and e go comot all the bad things wey Satan don cause. - Gen.		Jesus will crush the serpent 's head and erase from the universe all traces of Satan 's rebellion. - Gen.
We know say e no good make we support any party for politics, or support any man as our leader.		But we realize that we must remain neutral, never favoring one political party or human leader over another.
Wetin go happen to the business wey dem dey do for this world?		What lies ahead for today 's commercial system?
Wetin dey help us fit continue for this work today?		How is it possible for us to continue in this work?
Wetin papa and mama fit do to help their pikin learn Bible?		How can parents get help in teaching their children the truth?
Wetin we learn?		What is the lesson for us?
When we read this story and think deep about - am, we fit ask ourself say: ' Wetin King David for do make e no suffer as e suffer because of wetin happen?		While reading and meditating on this account, we might ask ourselves: ' How could King David have avoided the heartache he suffered because of his adulterous act with Bath - sheba?
Wetin we go do if we want be like Jesus?		To be like Christ, what do we need to do?
But we wey dey serve dey different. This one dey make people laugh us.		Hence, we too stand out as different, even becoming targets for ridicule.
This man, Adam, wey God use sand sand make no get sin, na im make dem call am ' God pikin. ' - Luke 3: 38.		That perfect man, Adam, who was made from the earth was rightly called a " son of God. " - Luke 3: 38.
But, some fit no want do any work for congregation.		However, some may be reluctant to reach out.
No leader for this world fit promise us that kind life!		And no human leader can promise that!
After Jesus die, many of im apostle stay for Jerusalem, and na there the governing body dey.		It appears that in the early days of Christianity, most of the apostles remained in Jerusalem, which continued to be the location of the governing body.
After Jesus teach one woman about the correct way to serve God, e come tell im disciple dem sey: ' My food na to do wetin the Person wey send me want and to finish im work. '		Once, after teaching a woman about true worship, Jesus said to his disciples: " My food is to do the will of him who sent me and to finish his work. "
After una travel go another country, which kind problem una get and how una take manage am?		What challenges did you encounter after you moved, and how did you cope with them?
And as things for this world dey hard everyday, we need to make sure sey we get strong love for our brothers.		As pressures mount, we will need the deepest of love between us and our brothers and sisters.
And when you don see this things, like Josiah, make you try do dem.		If you do, apply yourself, just as Josiah did.
August Krafzig self happy sey the work wey dem give am no let am join the fight.		August Krafzig was grateful that his duties did not put him on the battlefront.
Because Noah learn about, e come get faith and the sense wey God dey give.		Accurate knowledge gave Noah faith and godly wisdom, which protected him from harm, especially spiritual harm.
Because of our problem and other things wey we dey do everyday, we fit forget this serious matter.		We need to guard against losing sight of this vital issue.
Bible talk sey for last days, people no go dey behave well.		These last days are a time of moral chaos.
But Syntyche hear sey everybody wey go enjoy theirself well well.		Syntyche was not invited, but she heard about the good time that everyone had.
But our family people fit talk sey dem don deceive us, or we don join secret cult.		While we may be overjoyed about the Bible truths we have learned, our relatives may mistakenly believe that we have been tricked or have become part of a cult.
But the thing be sey, make this earth for plant to grow, so that we go dey see food chop.		For instance, you may worry that you will not have enough food to eat.
But wetin we know be sey, e no make sense at all as dem put Paul and Silas for prison like that.		Whatever the case, here they are, unjustly thrown into prison.
But what if some people no even put mind for the song wey dey play, dem still dey waka, dey greet and gist with their friend?		But what if some individuals are distracted, milling about or conversing with their friends, unaware that the program is beginning?
Dem fit dey fear sey other people no go do the work well.		They fear that the work will not be done properly.
Dem go read some verse for Wycliffe Bible to people wey dem dey preach to.		Often the Lollards read portions of the Wycliffe Bible to those whom they met, and they left handwritten copies behind.
Dem no dey select.		This systematic method showed impartiality.
E come sey: " Because of that one, I believe sey I fit dey serve well every day.		For that reason, " he said, " I think that as each day passes, I can remain faithful.
E don tey wey this people don dey suffer Israel people, na im mek dem no want stop to pursue dem.		These enemies had oppressed them for years, so the Israelites could not give up.
E fit no easy for Daniel to dey carry body down.		A more subtle challenge for Daniel could have involved his exceptional abilities, which led to his receiving special privileges.
E fit try to make people believe sey dem fit get life wey no go end, even if dem no follow wetin talk. But that one na big lie!		He may attempt to convince people that there is a way to live forever without obeying.
E no easy for papa and mama to protect their children and theirself from this bad things.		Parents in particular often struggle to shield their children from such wrongdoing.
E pain us sey some of dem do wetin no good because dem no trust God.		Sadly, some Israelites gave in to wrong desires because they failed to rely on God.
E preach to rich people and poor people, Pharisee and Samaritan, and even to tax collectors and sinners.		He preached to rich and poor, Pharisees and Samaritans, even tax collectors and sinners.
E see six men wey carry wetin dem take dey scatter things and one man dey with dem, ' im cloth na linen, ' and e carry ' wetin person take dey write. '		He saw six men with smashing weapons. He also saw a man among them who was " clothed in linen " and had " a secretary 's inkhorn. "
E want make we remember sey everyday get im own problem and make we put mind sey go help us.		He wants us to address life 's concerns one day at a time - fully confident that will help us.
Eagle no dey use only im power fly go far place.		The eagle does not soar and glide long distances solely in its own power.
Even for night, my mind dey correct me. ' ( Ps.		Even during the night, my innermost thoughts correct me. "
For 2015, the 10 deaf publisher wey dey there happy to see 62 people wey come memorial		The 10 deaf publishers in that city were delighted that 62 people attended the Memorial there in 2015
For June 1966, dem carry 49 brothers and sisters wey dey Feij Congregation go court for Lisbon, because our brothers dey do meeting for other brothers house.		All 49 members of the Feij Congregation were brought to trial for attending an illegal meeting in a private home.
For example, Abel give the better thing wey e get. This one show sey e really love.		Abel showed love for God by unselfishly offering the best of what he had.
For example, dem dey read book wey talk about people wey dey sleep together, and dey look naked people for book or film.		It can refer to the harmful practice of smoking or the telling of obscene jokes.
For example, e get one time wey Moses do wetin no like.		Moses once failed to sanctify.
For example, one church priest talk sey e don live for different different country. For this country dem, e don ask our brothers sey wetin dem dey preach.		For example, a missionary priest once told a Witness that he had lived in many different countries and that he had asked the in each country what message they were preaching.
For the next topic, we go talk about how all of us fit help dem continue to serve with sweet mind.		In the following article, we will consider how all of us can help them to serve joyfully.
Hezekiah na king of Judah. Sennacherib wey be Assyria king come attack Judah. E destroy all the city for Judah. Na only Jerusalem come remain. ( 2 Ki.		King Hezekiah lived at a time when King Sennacherib of Assyria invaded Judah and captured all the fortified cities, with the exception of Jerusalem.
How organization take dey use the money wey people contribute? We go answer all this question for this topic.		However, he still invites his servants to use their material things to support the work of his organization.
How person wey no get God spirit dey behave?		What are the characteristics of a physical person?
How preaching fit mold us to better person?		How can the field ministry mold us for our good?
How we go take handle problem wey we get, because we no join politics or war?		What should we do when it becomes difficult to stay neutral?
How we take know? Wetin e tell dem after God don bring am come life again show sey e no carry wetin dem do am for mind.		But his conversation with the disciples a few days after his resurrection does not reveal the slightest hint of disappointment, bitterness, or regret.
I no de happy at all and the pain for my heart no gree finish. "		I have great grief and unceasing pain in my heart. "
I sitdown for sand sand and ashes to show sey I regret wetin I talk. '		He even stated: " I take back what I said, and I repent in dust and ashes. "
If dem dey, how you fit use better mind help dem? E good make we make dem our friend, and let dem know sey we value dem for congregation. ( 1 Cor.		We need to befriend such individuals and help them to see that they are a valuable part of the congregation.
If you want talk to the person, you fit start with something like, " Maybe I dey quick vex.		You might begin the conversation by saying something like this, " Perhaps I am being overly sensitive, but when you spoke to me yesterday, I felt. "
Jesus dey use this holy spirit dey control congregation.		Jesus uses this holy spirit to lead the congregations.
Job get?		Job?
Later, dem come form one Portuguese - language congregation for Japan.		Later, the family helped to establish a Portuguese - language congregation.
Make all of us, whether we young or old, continue to ' get plenty work wey we dey do ' for. - 1 Cor.		May all of us, young or old, keep on " having plenty to do in the work of the Lord. " - 1 Cor.
Make we see some of the better things wey dey use dem do.		Consider a few of the wonderful things that has been doing with his willing, although imperfect, people.
Many of the book wey we dey write this days na for young people.		In recent years, much of our literature has been published for young people.
Matthew tell us wetin Joseph do when e know sey Mary get belle.		Matthew 's account focuses on events that involved Joseph.
Me with Robert Wallen, Charles Molohan, and Don Adams		With Robert Wallen, Charles Molohan, and Don Adams
Na make everything.		is the Creator.
Na regular pioneer Sakura be now. And e no dey feel sey na only im dey again.		Sakura now serves as a regular pioneer and no longer feels lonely.
Na that time I come know sey I don ready to go! '		At that point, I was ready to go! "
Na this one make am suffer people wey dey follow Jesus. But one day, Jesus talk to am from heaven.		He received a personal witness from the resurrected and glorified Jesus Christ.
Na to give people wey dey follow am ' food for the correct time. '		To give his domestics " food at the proper time. "
No forget wetin Bible tell us, sey ' the sense wey God dey give. e like peace, e get open mind. '		God 's Word reminds us that " the wisdom from above is. peaceable, reasonable. "
ONE person wey sabi write song and wey people know well well, talk sey: " Word dey make person think.		A POPULAR lyricist once said: " Words make you think thoughts.
Our prayer fit still help people wey their person die. E good make we dey remember dem for our prayer or pray with dem.		Do not underestimate the value of your prayers with and for a bereaved fellow Christian.
Remember sey if you dey make man or woman think sey you like am, you fit put yourself for serious wahala.		We may also find ourselves at greater risk if we are depressed and vulnerable.
Show Sey Na Your King, June		s Purpose Will Be Fulfilled!
So, e come start ice - cream business but money no come dey to continue. E come stop the business.		She set up a small ice - cream parlor but gradually ran out of funds and had to close the shop.
THE time when Corinna dey 17 years, dem arrest im mama, come put am for prison wey far.		WHEN Corinna was 17 years old, her mother was arrested and sent far away to a labor camp.
That time, many of us never learn plenty things for Bible.		In those days, many of us responded quickly upon learning basic Bible truths.
The apostles and other people wey serve God well go rule with am for heaven.		The faithful apostles and others will rule with him in heaven.
The leaders for Jew people no still like disciples of Jesus at all.		Jewish leaders likewise heaped scorn on Jesus ' followers.
The things wey make show sey e really sabi the work.		is an awe - inspiring Creator.
The way we translate am now match the way dem dey use word for Hebrew language.		The revised wording has lexical and grammatical support.
They be new missionary for this area and they go Gilead School.		What valuable theocratic training they gave me!
This kind thinking don spread sotey many people dey talk sey for money or property matter, e no get how e be wey person no go play wayo.		This notion is so widespread that when material gain is involved, many think that being honest is simply out of the question.
This one dey make dem change wetin dem believe, how dem dey think, and how dem dey behave.		They are then moved to make changes in their beliefs, attitudes, and conduct.
This one fit help dem learn two things.		That exercise could teach two important lessons.
This two topic go help us really understand wetin e mean to know where person suppose do reach.		These articles will help us to understand better the desirable quality of modesty.
This wedding different from other ones wey we don go. For other wedding, people dey overdrink, dey behave anyhow, and dey use bad word.		This was a big contrast to other weddings we had attended, where guests often got drunk, behaved badly, and used foul language.
This word wey Jesus hear two times sweet am well well. The first time wey Jesus hear this word na before e start im preaching work and the second time na the year wey e die.		Jesus must have felt encouraged on the two occasions when he heard these words - at the beginning of his ministry and during the final year of his earthly life.
This world dey make people no put mind for things wey concern God.		The spirit of the world is inducing spiritual sleep.
Till this time for my life, people wey I see for film and for area wey I grow affect me.		Up to this point in my life, I had learned to be somewhat macho.
We get faith because na ' God wey we fit trust ' and wey dey always do wetin e promise. - Deut.		Christian faith stems from the fact that is " the faithful God, " who always does what he promises. - Deut.
We suppose dey thank well well because e don use im holy spirit show us the truth and help us get faith for wetin e promise.		How grateful we should be that used his holy spirit to reveal the truth to us and to enable us to exercise faith in the good news!
Wetin dey our hand to do as we don know wetin want from us?		What responsibility do we as 's loyal worshippers have?
Wetin go make the curse wey dey the scroll no reach us?		How can we escape the curse of the flying scroll?
Wetin we learn from how take handle wetin Satan do?		What should we learn from God 's reaction to rebellion?
When I dey between 13 and 19 years, e dey sweet me to tell people about how God go make their tomorrow better.		As a teenager, I enjoyed giving people hope from God 's Word.
You fit no like their language, how dem dey dress, the kind food wey dem dey chop and the way dem dey do things.		Their first language, style of clothing, manners, and food may not be what you are accustomed to.
You no think sey e go happy well well? What of when e see how many times Bible talk about im story and im children children own?		He will be surprised to see how much of the Bible was used to record his personal story and that of his descendants.
For our congregation, two pioneer come dey quarrel.		In our congregation, two pioneers began having problems.
Even with this one, how take look Asa?		How can we imitate Asa in doing good? - 1 Ki.
For the second topic, we go see how the character wey people get take different from the character of people wey no dey serve am.		The second article describes how traits that characterize people of the last days stand in sharp contrast with the qualities found among God 's people.
Na wetin dey happen for congregation when John write letter go give Gaius.		That was the situation when John wrote to Gaius.
The letter wey carry wetin dem want make congregation do, show sey this brothers wey dey direct get the character wey holy spirit dey give like, love and faith. - Acts 15: 11, 25 - 29; Gal.		The letter conveying that decision also reveals that the governing body manifested the fruitage of God 's spirit, including love and faith. - Acts 15: 11, 25 - 29; Gal.
We go learn how this one go help you get strong faith sey na God make everything and still help you believe wetin Bible talk. Many things dey wey go help you believe. - Heb. 11: 1, ftn.		Let us see how doing so can help you to strengthen your faith in God as the Creator and in the Bible - topics on which there is no shortage of " convincing evidence. " - Heb. 11: 1, ftn.
One Major - General for U.S.		Major - General James Franklin Bell of the U.S.
Because e no stop to learn from ' the holy book ' for im own language, e continue to serve well when e dey Babylon.		Because he kept studying " the sacred books " in his mother tongue, he maintained his spiritual health while living in a foreign land.
John 6: 44 ) And Jesus welcome us too.		And Christ welcomed us.
Like person wey chop food, Jeremiah dey think about God word and e let am enter im body well.		Jeremiah figuratively ate and digested God 's precious words by meditating on them.
Wetin you go do if person do or talk wetin you no like?		How are you going to react?
You no waste time tell yourself sey: " Ah! I don see wetin better pass gold! "		You knew immediately that you had found something better than gold!
So how you fit help your pikin continue to get strong love for, and get the sense wey go give am life? ( 1 Pet.		How can you try to avoid such an outcome and help your child to " grow to salvation "?
Matt. 5: 27 - 29 ) don give us another thing wey go help us value im Kingdom well well. Wetin be that?		To help us maintain our wholehearted love for God 's Kingdom, has given us another priceless treasure.
Jas. 1: 21 ) When we get all this fine fine character, e go show sey we be servant.		It is an essential requirement for our salvation.
After one brother wey come from another congregation give talk finish, one sister write sey " na small time we talk, but you see wetin dey worry my mind and you make my mind come down.		Although we spoke for only a few minutes, " wrote a sister to a visiting speaker, " you saw my heavy heart, and you comforted and uplifted me.
After some weeks, the sister come meet the brother and tell the brother say e don de struggle with one problem for house.		A few weeks later, she approached the brother and mentioned that for some time she had been coping with a distressing situation at home.
After three weeks I come tell Maxine sey I want marry am, and after six weeks we marry.		After three weeks I proposed, and after six weeks we were married.
And how we fit take show sey we get faith?		And more important, in what ways must we exercise our faith?
And when the priest dem talk to am, e come vex!		Then, when the priests confronted him, proud Uzziah became enraged!
Anybody fit start to overdo if e let the sin wey dey im body start to control am.		Anyone can act immodestly if he allows himself temporarily to be overcome by fleshly desires.
Because of im favor, e come open our mind make we fit know the good news about im Kingdom.		Out of his undeserved kindness, he opened our heart to the good news.
Because some people dey shame, dem fit think sey their visitor no go enjoy im visit.		Some are shy and fear that conversation would lag or that guests might not feel entertained.
Bible even tell true Christian sey make dem ' no forget to dey treat stranger well. ' ( Heb. 13: 2, ftn. )		In fact, the Bible urges genuine Christians: " Do not forget kindness to strangers. "
Bible tell us sey ' people wey marry go get problem. ' ( 1 Cor.		The Bible warns that those who marry " will have tribulation in their flesh. "
But e no gree take the work, even if dem go pay am better money. E do like that because the work no go let am put mind for work.		However, since the job would diminish her focus on the ministry, she turned down this lucrative offer.
But if we follow wetin Bible talk, we fit settle the problem or e no go happen at all.		However, such problems can be solved or even avoided if we apply the counsel found in God 's Word, the Bible.
But the truth be sey, every family go choose wetin go help dem and their pikin serve well. ( Gal.		Of course, it is up to each family to determine what will be most beneficial for the spiritual health of their children.
Damaris don dey pioneer for 20 years now.		Damaris has now been a pioneer for 20 years.
Dem dey tell me sey dem love me and sey dem dey happy to see sey I dey try well well.		They tell me that they love me and are pleased to see my spiritual progress.
Dem give their life and the first thing for their life na to do wetin e want. My papa name na Clarence and I get one uncle wey im name na Alfred.		They had made a dedication to our heavenly Father, so doing God 's will was their first priority.
Dem no dey talk bad thing wey fit make person cry, dem no dey thief and play wayo. - wp16.1 - E, p.		They do not make false, malicious statements that injure others, and they neither commit fraud nor steal. - wp16.1, p.
Do good things for your brothers and sisters, and spend time with them.		Fill your life with upbuilding activity and association.
E clear sey dem really wicked and dem no sabi pity person!		How cruel and unmerciful!
E fit be sey na from Shem Abraham take learn about God.		Abraham took in knowledge about God, perhaps from Shem.
E fit be sey this time, e no ' know where e suppose do reach as e dey follow God waka. '		But it could be that he completely forgot that he was supposed to be ' walking modestly with God. '
E fit use our friends for school, or people wey we de work with. They fit de laugh us because we de try to live our life the way want. ( 1 Pet.		Or he can prompt our associates at work or in school to mock us because of our desire to live by the Bible 's moral standards.
E get one time when road no good and e hard brother Arthur Willis and Bill Newlands wey we first mention for up to travel. E take dem like two weeks to travel 20 miles ( 32 km ) because heavy rain wey fall for desert, make potopoto full everywhere.		On their preaching expedition in the Australian outback, Arthur Willis and Bill Newlands, mentioned in the introduction, once labored for two weeks to travel 20 miles ( 32 km ) because heavy rains had turned the desert into a sea of mud.
E get wetin you fit change so that you fit invite people? If you arrange your time well, you go still get chance to go if person invite you.		Could you make some adjustments so that you will have time and energy to accept or offer hospitality?
E go even comot Satan and im demons wey dey make people do bad things. - Eph.		He will even drive away the bad " air " of this world system, for the bad spirit of Satan and his demons will be gone at last. - Eph.
E go rule for one thousand years for God Kingdom. After, e go give the Kingdom back to so that ' God go come be everything to everybody. ' - 1 Cor.		After his Thousand Year Reign, Jesus will hand over his Kingdom to so that " God may be all things to everyone. " - 1 Cor.
E say if things hard, we no go serve God again.		He says that if we are pressured, we will turn our back on God.
E sey: " I dey always feel sey dem dey write all the topic for me.		I often feel that these articles are written just for me.
E sey: ' Always dey pray. '		He wrote to fellow believers: " Pray constantly. "
Even when e dey sick, e still get strong faith.		She was very brave throughout that difficult time.
Example wey dey touch mind fit still help your pikin believe sey wetin dey Bible na true.		Effective illustrations can also strengthen a child 's faith in the accuracy of the Bible.
For Armageddon, all the 144,000 anointed ones wey dey heaven with Jesus go follow am fight the kings wey dey this earth. And dem go win the fight.		Then all of the 144,000 will share with Jesus in conquering the kings of the earth.
For example, two people fit dey go out together because dem get am for mind to marry. But as dem start, e make sense for dem to tell each other where dem go do reach for matter like, to touch each other, to kiss, and wetin dem go do make only two of dem no dey for some kind place.		For example, it is wise for a couple, right from the start of a courtship, to set clear limits for themselves about such matters as touching, kissing, or being alone together.
For example: Think am sey one woman wey don marry go market.		To illustrate: Imagine a married woman who is shopping.
Germany come dey suffer dem well well because dem see people like their enemy.		Hence, they were viewed as enemies of the German State and were bitterly persecuted.
Germany government arrest this man because dem no like am.		He had been an Austrian politician.
How you think sey Naboth family and im friend dem go feel about this new message?		How did this decision affect those who knew of Ahab 's terrible crime?
I happy sey na im give the talk. Proverbs 18: 22 talk sey: ' Person wey see good wife don see better thing.		Proverbs 18: 22 says: " The one who finds a good wife has found something good, and he receives 's favor. "
I like am well well. " ( Matt.		At his baptism, Jesus heard a voice from heaven say: " This is my Son, the beloved, whom I have approved. "
If elders be like this or dem dey do other things when people dey sing for meeting, brothers and sisters for congregation fit start to copy their example. - Ps.		This view can affect the whole congregation, especially if those taking the lead find reasons to hold back or to engage in other activities while the rest of the congregation is singing. - Ps.
If person do wetin bad well well for eye, why e good make e go tell elders?		Why should a Christian guilty of serious sin approach the elders for help?
If we dey always preach, e go help us put mind for the main thing.		Continuing to have a regular share in 's work can help us to stay focused on the big issue.
If we get good mind for our brothers and sisters and we love dem, we go dey forgive dem.		Love and kindness can help us to be forgiving toward one another.
Im na God wey no dey fail person, wey no dey ever do partial. E dey do the correct thing and im way straight. ' - Deut.		A God of faithfulness who is never unjust; righteous and upright is he. " - Deut.
want make we value peace. E want make we dey do wetin go make peace dey.		GOD urges Christians to cherish peace, to make peace a key aspect of life.
JUDGE JEPHTHAH na leader wey no dey fear and na strong soldier.		HE WAS a valiant leader; she was a submissive wife.
na the God wey dey help us endure.		is " the God who supplies endurance and comfort. "
Jesus tell one person wey ask am question sey na this one be the law wey matter pass.		In fact, that is exactly what Jesus Christ told an inquirer.
John come start to study Bible. Small small, e come dey do wetin e dey learn. E no tey, e come be Witness.		John started to study with the, took his stand for true worship, and began serving.
Love no dey jealous. '		Love is not jealous. "
Make we use one brother story talk am. Im name na Peter.		Consider the experience of a brother named Peter.
Na true sey e no easy, but we go fit do am.		Yet, the fight against sinful desires can be won.
One young man, wey im name na Eutychus, dey listen as Paul dey preach. E sitdown for window.		A young man named Eutychus was listening, seated at a window.
Other Witness people from other country still join dem. One of the manager for the stadium come talk sey: " I never see people wey behave well like this before for this stadium.		In commenting on those gathered, one of the managers of the stadium said: " This is the best - behaved crowd I have ever seen in this stadium.
Satan want shake una as dem dey shake wheat.		Satan has demanded to have all of you to sift you as wheat.
So, I go preach for where dem sey make I preach. '		Thus, I too will serve where I am assigned. '
Some things wey Matthew and Luke write about Jesus family and when e dey small, dey different.		Why do Matthew 's and Luke 's accounts differ as to Jesus ' early life?
That time, na every day I dey go church.		I looked forward to spending some time at a convent because I loved God.
That time, people no want see black and white people together.		Racism ran high in those days.
The book " What Does the Bible Really Teach? "		The " What Does the Bible Really Teach? "
The man dey ready for im study and e even ready to study every day. This one make us fit finish the whole Bible Teach book for one month.		He could study every day and prepared so well that we finished the Bible Teach book in one month.
The topic show sey engineer wey sabi book well well fit copy wetin God don make, but e no fit do am like God own. "		They show that the greatest engineers may imitate but will never equal the complex designs in nature. "
The truth be sey, we no fit do one leave one.		In fact, we cannot have one without the other.
Their body fit dey push dem to put hand for sex wey no clean for God eye.		Even so, our work is not finished.
Think about how you fit take arrange your life so that you go get more time to do things wey concern God work.		Think about what you might be able to do to simplify your lifestyle so that you can get more involved in Kingdom activities.
Think am.		Think of it.
Timothy behave like apostle Paul. ( Acts 16: 3; 1 Cor.		His attitude was similar to that of the apostle Paul.
Today, people dey think and dem dey do things like people wey dey Canaan that time.		In our time, people think and act like the Canaanites.
Today, we dey see people wey like theirself pass any other thing. We still dey see people wey like money and enjoyment.		The earth is filled with those who have an inordinate love of self, money, and pleasures.
WHY we believe sey really get us for mind?		WHY can you be sure that those words are true and that truly does care for you?
We go happy if we no start to use person name do amebo, like person wey dey add fuel join fire.		How grateful we would be that we did not make a situation worse by slandering a fellow Christian!
Wetin Paul talk show sey we need to do everything wey we fit do to comot all this things from our mind.		Paul 's descriptive language clearly shows that strong measures are needed to wipe out such wrong desires.
Wetin Satan do no make stop to love us. And e no fit make us stop to follow even though sin dey our body.		Satan 's rebellion did not stop from extending his love to mankind, nor can it prevent even imperfect humans from being loyal to.
Wetin happen to Job show sey ' dey pity person well well and e dey show mercy. '		The record of Job bears out that " is very tender in affection and merciful. "
Wetin make us believe sey God go arrange the resurrection wey dey come for front?		Why can we trust that the coming resurrection will be orderly?
Wetin show sey we need to follow wetin don arrange?		In what ways are we dependent on the laws of nature?
What of bad government and business, wetin go happen to dem?		What, though, about all the other corrupt organizations?
When dem finish the school, dem come send dem go Madagascar back. This one make belle sweet dem well well.		Upon graduating, the couple were delighted to be reassigned to Madagascar.
When e see the result, e know sey na dey help us.		When she sees the outcome, she knows that is helping us.
Which things Satan get power to do?		What is the extent of Satan 's influence?
World Bank talk sey the number of people wey poverty want kill for only Africa, don high well well. E climb from 280 million people for 1990 to 330 million people for 2012.		Poverty: According to the World Bank, the number of those suffering extreme poverty in Africa alone has grown from 280 million in 1990 to 330 million in 2012.
You dey see the work wey elders dey do as something wey dey show sey love you?		Do you view such help as an expression of 's love for you?
You fit still send your contribution to Witness branch office for your country.		It is also possible for you to send donations directly to a legal entity that is used by 's in the country where you reside.
You fit still show am advice wey dey Bible like the one wey dey the Sermon on the Mount.		Or you might point out the Bible 's guiding principles, such as those found in the Sermon on the Mount.
Continue to dey put [ God ] Kingdom first, and e go add all this things join for una. " - LUKE 12: 31.		Keep seeking [ God 's ] Kingdom, and these things will be added to you. " - LUKE 12: 31.
Always dey try know wetin want. ' - EPH.		Keep perceiving what the will of is. " - EPH.
I no too dey flow with one brother wey we dey work together.		I had trouble getting along with a brother who worked with me.
But Assyria people fit attack Jerusalem?		Truly, not even Hezekiah expected that to happen! - 2 Ki.
Life get value pass money and property.		Life is more valuable than material things.
Na their work to teach congregation about God. Na im make dem sey: ' We go use our time dey pray and dey preach God word. '		They cared for the spiritual needs of God 's people, stating: " We will devote ourselves to prayer and to the ministry of the word. "
Why e hard for people wey dey think of only theirself to put God work as number one thing for life?		Why do fleshly - minded people have difficulty cultivating a balanced view of material things?
Wetin we go do if dem praise us for our work?		How can we deal with praise we receive for what we have accomplished?
Why we need to ready our mind now, sey we no go put hand for politics or war?		Why should we prepare now to remain neutral?
our brothers and sisters for congregation?		our brothers and sisters?
I still tell the elders for my congregation, our circuit overseer and im wife sey I go like go another country go preach.		I also talked with the congregation elders and the circuit overseer and his wife about my desire to serve abroad.
And make we dey happy sey we get Bible, wey be book wey dem use God spirit write.		Also, we can be grateful that we have God 's Word, which is a product of holy spirit.
We fit train our Bible student to sabi preach and teach well.		We can train our Bible students to become effective publishers of the good news.
Daniel young that time, but see am as better example.		Daniel stayed faithful and obedient to the very end of his life.
Before the time wey dem kill Jesus, ' one angel from heaven come meet am, tell am wetin go make am strong. '		Hours before his death, " an angel from heaven appeared to him and strengthened him. "
As we dey teach people the correct way to pray, who dem go pray to and the correct reason why dem suppose pray, we fit help dem near. And their mind go come down even when problem dey. - Ps.		By teaching them to pray in the right way, to the right Person, and for the right things, we can help them draw close to and find comfort during times of distress. - Ps.
The way dem dey live their life don change.		Their way of life was not as it once was.
How you go take copy example when person do wetin vex you?		When someone sins against you, how can you imitate?
AS people, we dey sure sey Bible wey be God word really ' dey alive and e get power. ' ( Heb.		AS 's people, we have no doubt that God 's word, his message to humans, " is alive and exerts power. "
After you don read this story for Matthew 18: 23 - 34, ask yourself sey: ' I ready to do wetin Jesus talk?		Consider one of Jesus ' illustrations as recorded at Matthew 18: 23 - 34.
And I de continue to preach because I really want help them. "		That motivates me to preach. "
And wetin go make dem enjoy their marriage?		And what will make Christian marriage a success?
Anytime wey weather good, dem dey try go preach for the people wey dey inside this area.		They participate in a preaching campaign to reach as many remote homes as possible while the weather is favorable.
As e dey preach, people wey dey pass dey surprise because im suppose be their enemy since e wear army uniform but instead, e dey preach about peace.		This supposed enemy, dressed in a military uniform, gave a message of peace to astonished French passersby.
Because for Bible, promise be like swear. Person fit swear sey e go do something or sey e no go do am. ( Gen.		Nevertheless, they are sacred and binding in God 's eyes because they carry the force of an oath - a sworn statement - that promises that a person will or will not do a certain thing.
Because of this one, I no come too dey get time for God work.		As a result, it left me almost no time for spiritual matters.
Because their enemy dey make dem fear, their hand come weak and dem come stop to build Jerusalem fence.		The threats from foreign opposers caused the Jews to slacken their hands, to cease rebuilding Jerusalem 's walls.
Bible sey na only if dem sleep with person wey no be their husband or wife, dem fit end the marriage.		The only Scriptural ground for divorce that might free one to remarry is sexual immorality.
Bible talk better things about people wey God spirit dey direct.		The Bible speaks highly of spiritually - minded people.
Brother Knorr still tell me sey make I call Brother Frederick Franz come so that e go still listen when I dey read am.		He asked me to call Frederick Franz so that he too could come and listen to the reading.
But Bible don first talk about one Eshbaal wey be King Saul pikin. ( 1 Chron.		Actually, another Eshbaal is mentioned in the Bible - he was one of the sons of King Saul.
But for only last year, dem take nearly 2 billion hour take preach; and e pass nine million people wey dem dey teach Bible for free every month.		Yet, last year alone, 's spent 1.93 billion hours in preaching the good news and conducting free of charge over nine million Bible studies each month.
But my papa strong and like to work hard, and e teach us to work hard too.		Nevertheless, my father was a lean, healthy, strong man who loved hard work and taught all of us kids to value it as well.
But that one even make me get mind more more sey, ' na God I go obey as ruler, no be people. ' - Acts 5: 29.		But that attack actually strengthened my resolve to " obey God as ruler rather than men. " - Acts 5: 29.
Devil dey make people comot mind for matter wey concern God.		The Devil is lulling people into spiritual apathy.
Diotrephes dey try to pursue brothers from congregation because dem dey treat visitors well.		Did John see the need to bolster Gaius ' courage?
E no go surprise us if people wey no dey serve dey treat us anyhow.		We are not surprised when we have to endure harsh treatment from the world.
E start for northern Kyrgyzstan, and na this area my town dey.		It all started in my home region of northern Kyrgyzstan.
E sweet us sey that our lawyer come dey study Bible with people and dey go meeting before e die.		We are happy to say that our courageous lawyer accepted a Bible study and was attending meetings before he died.
E talk sey: ' All the years wey I take preach for other country, I stay with sisters wey their place and character different from my own.		She relates: " Over the years while serving in different locations abroad, I lived with sisters who had backgrounds and personalities that were very different from mine.
Even though the Bible Student no really sabi why dem no suppose put hand for war matter, their character different well well from other people own.		Although the Bible Students did not fully understand the issue of neutrality, their attitude and conduct stood in stark contrast with the views and actions of people who welcomed the war.
For Bible, David ask sey: " Who you go invite come your house? "		The psalmist David asked: " O, who may be a guest in your tent? "
For the compound wey the water dey, e still get another water wey be like swimming pool.		The pool in question has been identified as a Jewish ritual bath.
For the first eight years when e dey rule, e let other people Judge the matter wey dem carry come give am.		During the first eight years of his rule, he generally turned the task over to others.
For this our time, we get plenty work to do for organization.		There is no shortage of work in God 's organization today.
God don talk for Psalm 110: 3 ( Read am. ) sey im people go get this kind mind.		This willing spirit is in fulfillment of the prophecy found at Psalm 110: 3.
How dem take different?		What is the difference?
How you go take balance your own work and work?		How can you balance your personal and spiritual obligations?
I dey study Bible well?		What do my study habits, dress and grooming, or reaction to counsel reveal about me?
I happy say wetin I learn from Bible change the way I de behave. E help me understand who real man be.		When I think about my old macho attitude, I am glad that I learned what the Bible teaches about real manliness.
I miss am well well!		How I miss him!
If pikin no come, how husband and wife wey want get pikin dey feel?		How can an unfulfilled desire to have children cause distress?
Make we dey always ask ourself sey: ' Wetin I like pass for life?		From time to time, we need to ask ourselves: ' Where does my true affection lie?
Maria Victoria: " I beg well well for my prayer sey make e help me to fit dey control my mouth.		Maria Victoria: " I fervently prayed to to help me control my tongue.
Mek you dey use ' all the example of better word ' wey dey Bible dey check wetin you dey hear for news		Compare what you hear with " the standard of wholesome words " found in the Bible
My servant dem go happy well well because their mind dey sweet dem. '		My servants will shout joyfully because of the good condition of the heart. "
Na " who " dem use for our former Bible.		Who " was the meaning given in the earlier rendering.
Na only and Jesus get that kind power. ( 1 Sam.		Only and Jesus are spoken of as having that ability.
Na this one make Timothy baptize and even join Paul dey travel go different different place go preach.		In fact, Timothy 's conviction about the good news was so strong that he became a baptized disciple and joined Paul in the missionary work.
Na two o 'clock for midnight the train take comot and we dey inside for six hours before we come down. From there we come trek another ten kilometers ( six miles ) go reach where we dey do the meeting. "		The train departed at two o 'clock in the morning, and we rode for six hours before disembarking and walking ten kilometers ( six miles ) to the meeting place. "
Noah be like Abel and Enoch wey believe sey the " pikin " wey Bible talk about go scatter Devil head. - Gen.		Like Abel and Enoch before him, he believed in the " offspring " who would bruise the serpent 's head. - Gen.
One young sister for Japan write sey: " As my family start to follow wetin dey Bible, all of us really happy.		A young sister in Japan wrote: " When my family applied Bible teachings, we were truly happy.
Pryce Hughes wey be branch servant for Britain that time, still stay the house.		A brother kindly accommodated all of us, together with Pryce Hughes, then the branch servant in Britain.
Since around 1990, dem no dey too disturb our work again. We don dey free to preach, and now, plenty brothers and sisters fit gather together to worship.		For one thing, since the 1990 ' s, we have enjoyed more freedom to preach the good news and to assemble together in large numbers.
Since person no fit see holy spirit, how Israel people take know sey na holy spirit dey help Moses?		Since holy spirit is an invisible force, how could the Israelites discern that it was operating on Moses?
Small time after Pentecost 33 C.E., one problem happen about partial among the brothers.		Not long after Pentecost 33 C.E., an issue of discrimination arose.
So the laugh wey e dey laugh that time no mean sey e really get joy. - Prov.		His momentary exuberance was not true joy. - Prov.
That night, as e de cry, e hold us and all of us cry together.		We all wept.
That time, World War I dey hot, and dem sey make my papa join military.		World War I was then raging, and he received a call for military service.
The Peace Wey God Dey Give Pass Wetin Person Fit Understand, Aug.		Feb. Keep Your Eyes on the Big Issue, June
The brother wife no like Witness people.		His wife did not like 's.
The school far from where my family dey. I come dey fear because na just five years I dey.		I was moved to a location several hours away from my family, and since I was only five years old, I was terrified.
The sister from south of Europe wey we talk about before, still learn this lesson.		The sister in southern Europe mentioned earlier learned this same lesson.
The sixth and seventh vision wey Zechariah see, na serious warning for people wey no want comot hand from bad thing.		Zechariah 's sixth and seventh visions are a sober warning to those who persist in dishonest ways, a reminder that does not tolerate wrongdoing.
The word " brothers " fit still mean sisters for congregation.		The term " brothers " can include female members of the congregation.
This kind thing fit make person carry bad sickness because e dey sleep with people anyhow, and e fit carry belle. E still dey cause many other problem. - Ps.		It may also lead to verbal abuse, drunkenness, violence, divorce, needless debt, addiction, imprisonment, emotional trauma, sexually transmitted disease, and unwanted pregnancy, to name a few. - Ps.
This one come dey make me want follow Jesus example. - John 10: 27.		Doing so made me want to follow Jesus ' example. - John 10: 27.
This one go make us dey do things with one mind.		Doing so promotes unity.
This one help dem continue to serve. Anytime wey dem remember Israel people story for wilderness, dem dey get hope sey, dem no go stay camp forever. - 2 Cor.		They kept a positive attitude by recalling that, like Israel 's trek in the wilderness, their stay in the camp would eventually come to an end. - 2 Cor.
This one make Hannah cry many times. After, when e go pray for tabernacle, Eli wey be High Priest come talk wetin Hannah no do.		Later, when she was praying at the tabernacle, High Priest Eli mistakenly accused her of being drunk.
This one mean say de see us as e servant only if we de produce fruit. ( Matt.		In other words, views us as his servants only if we bear fruit.
Tony talk sey e remember when e still dey secondary school, many times when e look from im school window, e go see Jos and Rose dey preach.		Years before, from a window at his high school, Tony had observed Jos and Rose regularly going out in field service.
True - true, we fit learn plenty things from this story.		We certainly can learn a lesson from Rehoboam.
True true, wetin Jesus talk fit help you handle problem wey dey disturb you. - Heb.		Yes, Jesus can help you to cope with distress, and he can fill your heart with hope and courage. - Heb.
We dey like am if person no carry wetin we do am for mind? If na so, make we still do like that.		We appreciate it when others do not hold our faults against us, so we should act the same way toward them.
We dey make sure sey we dey always come out for preaching		We make sure that we have a regular share in the ministry
We dey make time to read Bible every day?		Are we making time to read the Bible daily?
We dey stay with people wey get bad character, and we fit even dey work with dem for the same place. Their bad character be like sickness wey fit catch another person.		Likewise, many of us live and work with those who are infected with attitudes and characteristics that run counter to godly qualities.
Wetin Jesus mean when e talk sey e go show im disciples how to ' catch people ' like fish?		What is involved in becoming " fishers of men "?
Wetin e good make you do if your husband or wife no dey serve?		How should those with an unbelieving mate view their situation?
Wetin e mean be sey: When we read Bible to person wey we dey preach to, we dey let talk to the person.		His point was: When we read directly from God 's Word in the ministry, we are letting speak to the householder.
Wetin we fit do about our mistake and other people own?		What can we do about our own faults and those of others?
Wetin we fit do so that we no go stop to serve?		What must we do to stay spiritually strong?
Wetin we learn from example?		What can we learn from 's example?
Wetin you fit do make your light shine for the place wey you de live?		What can you do to let your light shine in the neighborhood?
Wetin you fit do to help your children respect your husband or wife wey no dey serve?		How can Christians teach their children to honor an unbelieving parent?
What if you no fit stop to think about wetin the person do you?		Suppose you have been offended by a brother and you cannot put it behind you.
Why e bad to ' eye ' person wey no be our husband or wife?		Why is sexual interest in anyone who is not one 's own marriage mate unacceptable?
Why e good make we dey give people things?		Why is giving good for us?
Why e good to dey tell people word wey go make dem strong?		Why is encouragement a power for good?
Why e talk sey dem ' don die leave sin ' when dem still dey alive?		While they were still alive on earth, how could it be said of them that they had " died with reference to sin "?
Why we get the mind sey people wey we train go do well?		Why should you be convinced that your diligent efforts to train others in 's service will be successful?
You dey always listen and talk to?		How well are you communicating with?
You need to see when the people dey come hear the talk!		It was wonderful to see residents arriving.
I Get Hope for God, ' Dec.		What the Bible Says About Life and Death, No. 4
Cor.		How do you react when the elders find it necessary to give such a talk?
Wetin fit help us continue to fight so that we go fit enjoy God blessing?		What can help us to continue in our struggle to gain God 's blessing?
Wetin we fit learn from Robert story?		What can we learn from Robert 's experience?
Even if no be everything wey dem do correct, wetin we no suppose think?		Of what was the need for discipline not an indication?
How your area fit make you change the way you dey preach?		How might you adjust to changing conditions?
Wetin e go do before e choose the congregation?		What should he do before making a decision?
Which question we fit talk about with people wey come Memorial?		What question might we consider with interested ones?
At last, dem come give us free hand for December 18, 1974.		Legal recognition was finally granted on December 18, 1974.
The correct truth go help the brothers and sisters wey dey Colossae to ' fit dey waka the way wey want ' so that dem go do wetin like well.		With such accurate knowledge, the Colossian Christians would be able " to walk worthily of in order to please him fully. "
Story About People Life - I Happy to Work With People Wey Love		Life Story - I Have Been Blessed to Work With Spiritual Men
You Fit Enjoy Your Marriage!		Making Christian Marriage a Success
How?		How so?
No Follow Wetin People Dey Talk		Reject Worldly Thinking
Papa and mama go fit teach their pikin to respect wey be holy God if dem dey dress well. And e still good make dem use love dey teach dem.		Parents can instill in their children a healthy respect for the holy God whom they worship by setting the right example for their children and by giving loving and practical instruction.
For hundred years wey they don pass now, we don do plenty work for.		A century ago, our brothers were busy and accomplished much.
About 12 single brothers dey work for there.		About a dozen single brothers were serving there.
And e good sometimes to change wetin we don choose?		And should we at times change a decision that we have made?
And this one fit make them lose their position for religion and for politics.		They saw him as a political and religious rival who threatened their position.
Apostle Peter still do another one, and na one woman wey im name na Dorcas ( Tabitha ) e bring come life.		The apostle Peter was responsible for another one, that of the Christian woman Dorcas ( Tabitha ).
Because dem lock Kingdom Hall, brothers come dey do meeting for other brothers house.		Because Kingdom Halls were being closed, congregation meetings were held in private homes.
But Arthur know sey if e no comot, something go happen.		Arthur knew he must.
But Bible talk sey ' no dey quick vex. ' ( Ex. 34: 6 ) We fit show sey we get sense if, like, we no dey quick vex and we dey control our temper.		God has every reason to be wrathful over such deliberate insults, yet the Bible describes as being " slow to anger. "
But e bad for person to love imself?		Is it wrong for us to love ourselves?
But e still dey sure sey if e dey pray, trust, and if e get faith for Jesus sacrifice, e go fit win this fight.		However, he had full confidence that he could win his internal battle by prayerfully relying on and exercising faith in Jesus ' ransom sacrifice.
But mek we dey do like Gideon and im soldier.		But let us imitate Gideon and his men.
But prophet Daniel talk sey for the time of the end, ' the people wey dey think matter well, ' wey be the people wey go follow Jesus rule for heaven wey still dey this earth, go ' dey make many people come sabi wetin good. '		But the prophet Daniel foretold that during the time of the end, " those having insight, " the anointed remnant, would be " bringing the many to righteousness. "
Dem go talk about how you dey rule as king and talk about the power wey you get, to tell people about the thing wey you take your power dey do and how your kingdom fine reach. '		They will proclaim the glory of your kingship and speak about your mightiness, to make known to men your mighty acts and the glorious splendor of your kingship. "
E fit be sey person talk wetin no be true because e no want enter trouble or e want gain something make other people lose.		Perhaps this is done to avoid punishment or to profit at others ' expense.
E get one sister wey think sey no love am, and e come dey hard am to love.		Because of her past experience, one sister found it hard to love.
E get one time wey about 90 people stay for Bethel wey dey Mexico. Dem sleep ontop 20 carton of book wey dem arrange, and dem like am.		On one occasion, about 90 delegates stayed at the branch, where they had " as beds 20 cartons of books apiece, in rows. "
E good and e sweet for brothers to dey together as one! ' ( Ps.		How good and how pleasant it is for brothers to dwell together in unity! "
E no too tey, one of the oga for the group come tell us make we follow one of their group go different different village dey carry people.		Soon afterward, a communist officer ordered us to join a guerrilla raiding party.
E sey, ' E don tey wey I dey serve. I don even pioneer before.		I 've known the truth for years, ' he said, ' and I 've even served as a pioneer.
E sey: " If una continue to dey do wetin I dey tell una, e go show sey una really be my disciple, and una go know the truth, and the truth go free una. "		He said: " If you remain in my word, you are really my disciples, and you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free. "
E still good make we copy the example of people wey get faith, and make we ready to do wetin want.		We also increase our joy as we reflect on our current blessings, imitate the faith of others, and seek to do God 's will.
E think sey I forget to arrange transport for the missionary dem wey dey come, but I don arrange am.		He mistakenly assumed that I had neglected to arrange transportation for the visiting missionaries, although I had done so.
Even apostle Paul talk sey e get where e no dey try.		Even the apostle Paul acknowledged his own weaknesses.
Even when people stop to dey do wetin talk, Jephthah and im pikin no stop to dey do wetin want.		Even when others stopped doing the right thing, Jephthah and his daughter remained faithful to.
For Judges chapter 5, we go learn other things wey happen because wetin dey chapter 5 no dey chapter 4 wey we don dey talk about.		Judges chapters 4 and 5 should be studied together, for each chapter reveals details not contained in the other.
For example, Jesus enjoy food and e give other people food.		Jesus enjoyed food, and he fed others.
For example, if elders see am sey we no dey do well for work like before, dem go try help us.		For example, if the elders discern that we are having spiritual problems, they try to help us - but not on the basis of human wisdom.
For example, papa and mama fit tell another family to join dem for their family worship.		For instance, parents may invite other families to join them in family worship from time to time.
For example, some brothers for Corinth come dey feel sey dem too much. Dem dey think sey nothing fit make dem comot for side. ( 1 Cor.		Some in Corinth, for example, had apparently become overconfident - thinking that they were so strong in the truth that they could never fall.
For our time, the man wey carry wetin person take dey write, na Jesus Christ; e dey mark the people wey go save. - w16.06, pp.		In the modern - day fulfillment, the man with the inkhorn represents Jesus Christ, who marks those who will survive. - w16.06, pp.
For some country, some people no believe sey God dey, and some believe sey even if e dey, wetin dey happen for this world no concern am. Other people still believe sey no be God make things.		In some lands, outspoken atheists, agnostics, and evolutionists promote ideas designed to erode not just love for God but also belief in him.
For there, ' dem go happy well well and their mind go come down because peace dey everywhere. ' - John 10: 16; Ps.		There " they will find exquisite delight in the abundance of peace. " - John 10: 16; Ps.
Give them better territory to preach.		Do they have suitable territory?
How Abraham take show sey e trust?		How did Abraham show that he trusted in God?
How don take bless im servant for Bible time and for our time?		How has rewarded his servants, both in the past and in the present?
How we fit show sey we dey use our money and property well?		How can material possessions be used to strengthen our friendship with God?
How we go fit do this one na if we dey follow dem talk for meeting and we dey show sey their matter concern us.		When we go to the meetings, we show our brothers that we want to be with them and talk with them and that we are interested in how they are feeling.
I dey front of our house, for June 1940, when I see many soldier for inside lorry.		In June 1940, I watched from our front doorstep as thousands of traumatized soldiers passed by in lorries ( trucks ).
I no worry say we no de chop together.		I didn 't mind.
If e work, that one mean sey the matter don end.		If you succeed in resolving the issue with their help, you will have " gained your brother. "
If we come know sey we don do wetin make another person vex, Bible advise us sey make we go meet the person, settle the matter with am.		If we discern that we have done so, the Bible 's direction is to go to the one whom we have offended and try to reconcile matters.
If your mind tell you sey you no dey try for this matter, tell for prayer make e help you.		If your conscience tells you that you have improvements to make in this regard, prayerfully seek 's help in order to make them!
Instead, hold your songbook go up, raise your head, and sing from your heart! ( Ezra 3: 11; read Psalm 147: 1. )		Rather, hold your songbook up high, lift your head, and sing with heartfelt expression!
like wetin we dey do for am and e go bless us?		that values and rewards the faithful service of mere humans?
no dey change and we fit trust am.		Consistent and Loyal.
tell David sey e no go stop to bless am because of how e love David reach. But na Solomon im pikin go build the temple.		Although lovingly assured David that He would continue to bless him, God directed that David 's son Solomon build the temple.
Jesus go make your mind strong and e go give you hope.		Thus, when you are anxious, he can mercifully ' come to your aid ' and ' help you at the right time. '
Jesus know sey the problem go end one day and sey the good thing wey God go give am for heaven no go end.		He knew that the trial was temporary and that his reward in heaven would last forever.
Jesus suffer serious pain when dem nail am for pole. But before e die, e pray make im Father forgive the people wey kill am because dem no know wetin dem dey do.		While suffering agonizing pain on the torture stake, Jesus prayed that his Father forgive his executioners because, as he said, " they do not know what they are doing. "
LIFE for this world no easy at all.		AS YOU know, life in this system of things is by no means trouble - free.
Later, some of the people for the village become Witness.		Some of them eventually became.
Lie lie still dey among the old character wey person need to pull comot for body.		Besides abusive speech, the practice of lying is also a trait of the old personality.
My God go hear me. '		My God will hear me. "
Na around 150 A. D. dem write this book. The way this book take describe Paul fit be the best, and many people believe wetin dey the book.		D. 150, there is a description of Paul which is probably the best, and a true tradition.
Na because e believe sey go judge the matter well.		Abraham was convinced that would never act unjustly by " putting the righteous man to death with the wicked one. "
Na im make, since September 1, 2014, na circuit overseer dey choose elders and ministerial servant.		In line with that pattern, since September 1, 2014, circuit overseers have been appointing elders and ministerial servants.
Na so our faith still be, if we leave am e go die.		So, too, our faith.
Na true sey we no go fit comot hand finish but, make we try as Paul take try.		Nevertheless, we should strive to do so, even as Paul did.
No one wey no happen. ' ( Josh.		Not one word of them has failed. "
Now the two of dem dey happy as dem dey serve together.		Now they enjoy serving together.
One man even tell am sey: " Why you come here?		One man told him: " Why did you come here?
People wey they hate Jesus want make e support one side for politics. So they ask Jesus question about tax matter.		Jesus ' enemies tried to trap Jesus by getting him to take sides on a taxation issue.
Riana pack go the area, but e no see work.		Riana moved, and right away he faced an obstacle.
So, na because of ' one person sin, death come dey rule as king. '		Thus " by the trespass of the one man death ruled as king. "
So, our Father wey get love, go bring dem come life again.		The ransom makes possible the resurrection of the dead.
So if people for your family dey worry you, trust sey e go help you fit bear am. ( Isa.		If following Jesus has brought " a sword " into your family, rely on to help you deal with the challenges successfully.
Sometimes, e no bad to give government worker something to show sey you happy for wetin e do for you, even if na work wey e suppose do		At times, it may be appropriate to offer a small token of appreciation for a legitimate service to which a person is entitled
THE topic wey dey the Informant * ( December 1937, The one wey dem dey use for London ) sey: " Kingdom Publishers in Britain - Wake Up!!		IT CAME as a clarion call: " Kingdom Publishers in Britain - Wake Up!! "
The pikin name na Vitaly. We later comot from Estonia go Nezlobnaya wey dey for south Russia.		Later, we moved from Estonia to the settlement of Nezlobnaya in the south of Russia.
The second thing wey fit help us make we no dey worry too much na, to dey read Bible and think well about wetin we dey read.		A second way to gain inner peace is by reading Bible texts and meditating on them.
The topic dem still talk about how we fit show sey we love Jesus Christ instead of the things wey dey this world.		The articles also discuss how we can have affection for Christ rather than for the things of this world.
Their quarrel no come dey make some people for congregation happy. ' - GARY.		Their bickering was discouraging to others. " - GARY.
This one go make you want tell other people about the things wey you believe. - Read Psalm 73: 28.		That, in turn, will move you to speak up about your beliefs. - Read Psalm 73: 28.
This one mean sey, people need better law to get freedom.		This implies that, in practice, certain limits are necessary so that everyone in that society can benefit from the freedom granted.
This one suppose make us get strong faith sey all the other things wey don promise go still happen, no be so? - Josh.		Does that not strengthen your faith that all the other promises has made will likewise come true? - Josh.
To fit do this work, Solomon need to get strong mind.		To succeed, Solomon would need to be courageous and go to work.
To worship only, we go make sure sey na im be number one for our life. And we no go let anything comot the love wey we get for.		To give exclusive devotion, we must be careful not to allow anything to take, or even to share, the place in our life that alone should occupy.
We dey like make friend with people wey dey treat us well and wey no dey tight hand.		Those who treat one another with kindness and generosity often become close friends.
We dey write many of our book for all Witness people.		In addition to publications for 's in general, we receive Bible - based material that appeals to specific groups.
We go fear say Satan or the demons go hear wetin we talk and use - am bring us trouble?		Should we fear that the Devil or the demons might hear our prayers and interfere?
We go gain many things when we know who to praise and where to praise and respect dem reach.		Achieving proper balance brings many benefits.
We still learn sey, no tire for Israel people because of their mistake.		We also see that despite their failures, did not give up on the Israelites.
Wetin do the bad people for Noah time? And wetin this one teach us?		What did do to the wicked in Noah 's day, and what lesson should we learn from what happened at that time?
Wetin Jesus mean when e talk sey, " If una continue to dey do wetin I dey tell una "?		Jesus ' statement " if you remain in my word " implies that there are certain requirements or boundaries for being set free by him.
Wetin dey make the water for Bethzatha ' dey shake '?		What Is the Kingdom of God?
Wetin e come do? When e dey talk to King Herod Agrippa and Festus, wey be governor for Judea wey Rome dey control, e no talk to dem anyhow. Instead e respect and praise dem. - Acts 25: 1 - 12; 26: 1 - 3.		Later, when Paul was accused of wrongdoing, he respectfully defended himself and showed proper honor to King Herod Agrippa and to Festus, governor of the Roman province of Judea. - Acts 25: 1 - 12; 26: 1 - 3.
Wetin go help us sing well?		Explain how we can increase our confidence in our singing.
Wetin many people today no know?		What are most people today not aware of?
Wetin we go gain if we dey show this kind love?		What is the reward for showing such love?
Wetin we go learn for this topic?		What topics will this article cover?
Wetin we learn from the things wey happen to Paul and Silas when dem dey prison?		What do we learn from these events?
Which question fit come person mind because of wetin Jesus talk for Matthew 24: 14?		What questions arise because of Jesus ' words found at Matthew 24: 14?
Which question we go answer for the next topic?		What questions will we consider in the next article?
Why e good to dey patient if e be like sey our life no dey change as we want?		Why should we not be discouraged if we are not able to make changes quickly?
You fit get small fear if na you join another congregation.		If you have moved to a different congregation, you too may be apprehensive.
how dem dey preach?		the methods they use?
Me, I be your God, wey dey teach you the thing wey go make life better for you. ' - ISA.		I, am your God, the One teaching you to benefit yourself. " - ISA.
Where sin plenty, favor even plenty pass am.		Where sin abounded, undeserved kindness abounded still more.
Jesus no fall for Satan because e continue to think about wetin teach am.		Thankfully, there is an antidote to being poisoned by materialistic thinking: a healthy dose of God 's Word, the Bible, taken on a regular basis.
After that time, tell Abraham sey: ' Make you know true true sey your pikin dem go be stranger for country wey no be their own and the people for there go make dem slave and suffer dem reach 400 years. '		Sometime later, told Abraham: " Know for certain that your offspring will be foreigners in a land not theirs and that the people there will enslave them and afflict them for 400 years. "
Wetin Jesus do when e dey this world, na part of wetin make God name clean.		Jesus contributed to the sanctification of the divine name.
Like many other deaf brothers and sisters wey don tey for organization like me, I don learn to dey patient.		Like many other deaf brothers and sisters from my generation, I have learned to be patient.
If we want make use this things help us, e good make we dey read Bible everyday, and dey think about wetin we read. We go dey pray everytime make give us sense to do wetin we read for Bible. ( Josh. 1: 8; Ps.		To benefit from that power, we must read the Bible daily, meditate on it, and pray constantly for the wisdom and strength to apply Bible counsel.
So mek we no tell anybody sey e get one person wey Devil dey control for government.		So we should never give anyone the idea that a certain government official is controlled by the Devil.
When you dey think about where you read for Bible, you fit ask yourself: ' How I fit do this thing for my family?		As you meditate on a Bible passage, you might consider questions like these: ' How can I apply this information in my family?
How Judge Jephthah and Hannah take be like each other?		What did Judge Jephthah and Hannah have in common?
Wetin this one teach us about?		What does this teach us about?
Which example show sey God word ' no dey waste time '?		Illustrate how ' God 's word runs swiftly. '
Which question we go answer?		We want to find the answer to what question?
Why e good make we dey always think about am?		How important is appreciation for that issue?
How the example of our brothers wey them de preach for area wey people no want listen de help us?		Why are we encouraged by those who faithfully preach in unresponsive territories?
The main thing wey fit cause trouble for us na people for our family wey no dey serve.		But the greatest threat to our peace may come from unbelieving relatives.
Wetin you learn from people for Bible wey do everything wey dem fit do to help other people?		What do you think of the Bible examples of those who made great sacrifices in behalf of others?
No Fear.		Do Not Be Afraid.
Which kind blessing person wey get faith fit enjoy?		What blessings are possible for someone who has faith?
But Rome people no dey follow this law. Dem ready to leave the dead body there until e rotten or dem fit just trowey the body for grave wey dem bury many people.		As far as the Romans were concerned, though, the bodies of executed criminals either were left on the stake to rot or were thrown into a common grave.
As time dey go, no gree make anybody for Eli family be high priest again.		In time, his descendants would not be allowed to serve as high priests.
E get one sister wey help. The sister name na Kyoko and na pioneer. When dem send am go another place, e no happy at all.		Take, for example, Kyoko, a pioneer sister who became very discouraged after moving to a new assignment.
Wetin husband go do if e want make im wife dey respect am?		How can a husband gain deep respect?
True true, dem go be God children for heaven.		Yes, their future is to be sons of God in heaven.
As boxer take dey fight im enemy, make we self fight all our enemy comot.		Just as a boxer fights off his opponent, we must fend off our enemies.
Apostle Paul show us better example wey we go copy.		The apostle Paul set an example to be imitated.
Because help Nehemiah and im people, dem come get power to do the work.		With 's backing, Nehemiah and those with him strengthened their hands for the work.
Before dem bring Jesus come life, God servant like Elijah and Elisha don already bring people wey die come life.		Those who were raised before Jesus, such as by Elijah and Elisha, did not live on endlessly.
Brook sey: " Even as things no too easy for us wey be pioneer, we happy with the life wey we dey live.		Brook says: " Despite the obstacles that we pioneers face, we live a satisfying life.
But I enjoy the preaching work.		But I got a thrill out of witnessing to others.
But I thank sey e use brothers take correct us. And dem make our faith strong again. ( Ps.		But we are grateful to that he used faithful brothers to correct us and to strengthen us spiritually.
But dem need to wait until two of dem want am. Even though sey Bible talk about love play, e no talk about the kind love play wey husband and wife go play or where dem go play am reach. ( Song of Sol.		Although the Bible does not provide specific rules about the kinds and limits of love play that might be associated with natural sexual intimacy, it mentions displays of affection.
But na true? We really know how we go take solve the problem wey dey this world?		Does a comment like that indicate that man is coming to grips with the problems that have plagued him for so long?
But no be your body e want attack, na your mind.		A weapon specially designed to attack, not your body, but your mind.
But now wey we don baptize, we fit see sey e get other small small things for our life wey we suppose change so that we go fit dey do like and Jesus more more. ( Eph.		After baptism, we discerned the need to continue making changes - more subtle ones - so as to imitate God and Christ more closely.
But when this people change, dem come gentle and stop to dey cause wahala.		There are many who were once as fierce as wolves but who now live in peace with others.
Dem learn sign language and dem try use am sign the different different part for meeting so that I go understand. I thank all of dem.		I am grateful for the collective effort of all who have been willing to write notes, learn sign language, and help interpret for me as best they could.
E come still tell Solomon sey: ' Now, my pikin, make dey with you, and make you fit build the house for your God, just as e don talk about you. ' - 1 Chron.		Further, he encouraged Solomon, saying: " Now, my son, may be with you, and may you be successful and build the house of your God, just as he has spoken concerning you. " - 1 Chron.
E easy for people to collect hot charcoal from their neighbor take make fire, instead of dem to light am by theirself.		People would have found it easier, where possible, to get a hot ember from their neighbors rather than try to start a fire on their own.
E get 1,000,000 soldier wey sabi fight.		He had 1,000,000 experienced soldiers.
E good make elder dey take time look wetin this place talk because e go help am know how e fit take better im character.		From time to time, an appointed man should examine himself in the light of these spiritual qualifications, looking for areas in which he can improve.
E no easy o! The people wey dem don fit preach to, no many. Na this one make us arrange to go preach for the area.		As you can imagine, the publishers have been able to contact only a small number of the inhabitants of this country.
E sey: ' don really help me well well because I dey pray to am every time, especially when e don be like sey the matter pass my power. '		Incessant prayer to has been an invaluable help to me, particularly when situations have been tense, " recalls Adolfo.
Elders dey do wetin Jesus talk when e sey: ' Make dem no call una Rabbi, because na one person be una Teacher, and all of una na brothers.		Genuine Christian shepherds humbly obey Jesus ' words: " Do not you be called Rabbi, for one is your Teacher, and all of you are brothers.
Even don change wetin e want do because things change. ( 1 Ki.		altered his decision at times when circumstances changed.
Even when dem dey suffer us, we go do everything wey we fit do to follow wetin talk for Bible.		Even when we are persecuted, we do our best to live according to his righteous principles and laws.
For our time, everybody wey dey serve well, dey try to do wetin e want and dem no dey carry body up.		Today, all who worship in spirit and truth endeavor to reflect the same humble, submissive attitude.
God no need to explain anything give am.		The main point of 's words was not to explain to Job why he was suffering, as if God had to justify himself.
How take give Noah strong mind?		How did encourage Noah?
How Paul take help dem see the matter as see am?		How did Paul help the Christians in Corinth to gain God 's view of the matter?
How our preaching take dey show sey we dey use all our mind serve?		When preaching, how can we show that we have a complete heart?
How we fit gain from Psalm 147: 4?		How can we benefit from the psalmist 's seeming change of subject at Psalm 147: 4?
How we go take show sey we get real love?		In what ways can we show genuine love?
How we take know sey dey bless im servant?		How can we be sure that rewards his servants?
I dey beg am to give me im holy spirit and the sense to do wetin go make am happy? - Ps.		Do I ask him for his holy spirit and the wisdom to act in a way that pleases him? - Ps.
I know sey na only Bible plus spirit go fit help person change wetin dey im mind and sabi the truth wey dey Bible.		I knew that only the Bible and 's holy spirit could help a person change his thinking and understand the truth.
I think sey we go dey read Bible and we go dey learn about wetin dey Bible well well.		I thought we would spend a lot of time reading the Bible and learning about it.
If you never get, e good make you find one.		If not, why not seek one out?
If you start to do good thing, I no go show you favor?		If you turn to doing good, will you not be restored to favor?
choose Ruth make e be King David and Jesus Christ mama mama! - Ruth 4: 13 - 17; Matt.		He chose her to be an ancestress of King David and even of the promised Messiah! - Ruth 4: 13 - 17; Matt.
come destroy Sodom and Gomorrah.		When brought destruction on that entire region, he was doing more than just putting an end to the wrongdoing there.
Like Paul, James explain sey true faith wey Christian get no be just to believe; you must do wetin go show am.		Like Paul, James explained that true Christian faith is not just a matter of believing; action is involved.
Martha go don learn about this story.		Martha had certainly learned of that remarkable event.
Na make everything, and na im be King.		is the Maker of heaven and earth, the Sovereign of the universe.
Na better word John use praise am for im better character! - 3 John 1, 2, 4.		What a fine sentiment and beautiful compliment! - 3 John 1, 2, 4.
Na dem go fly go find the food by theirself, but the food dey everywhere for dem.		They have to go and find it, but the food is there in abundance.
Na im Syntyche come arrange im own get together, invite the same people wey Euodia invite but e no invite Euodia.		So Syntyche arranged her own gathering and invited the same brothers and sisters - but not Euodia!
Na you get word wey dey give life wey no go end. '		You have sayings of everlasting life. "
No be wetin Paul dey talk be that, because all this things na part of life.		Those are aspects of life for the average servant of God.
One of the things be sey law allow stranger to gather food wey remain from other people farm. - Lev.		The right to glean food was one such provision. - Lev.
One woman wey dey study Bible for Fiji choose wetin e go do.		A Bible student in Fiji had to choose between attending a Christian convention and going with her husband to a relative 's birthday party.
People poor well well for my area, and e no easy for person to survive.		In the region where I lived, poverty was widespread, and the work it took to make ends meet was exhausting.
Person fit think sey e no go hard dem to choose.		That might seem to have been a simple decision.
Plan wetin you go do.		Plan ahead.
Plenty people no de agree again because of politics. And many people hate strangers wey them de stay for their country.		Violent independence movements flourish, political divisions become more entrenched, and in many countries, foreigners are subjected to growing animosity.
SONG: 122, 139		SONGS: 122, 139
Sennacherib later send plenty soldier and some men wey get high position go Jerusalem. E do this one because e want make people for Jerusalem fear and make Hezekiah surrender. ( 2 Ki.		Sometime later, that king sent high officials to Jerusalem, along with a large army, to demoralize the Jews and intimidate Hezekiah into surrendering.
September 1, 1895 Watch Tower talk about the city wey person fit run go if e kill another person by mistake, for Israel time. E explain wetin the city mean for our time.		This feature of the typical Mosaic law strongly foreshadowed the refuge which the sinner may find in Christ, " stated the September 1, 1895, issue.
So Adam and Eve get conscience when God make them.		After Adam and Eve broke 's law, they hid themselves.
So like Jesus, we no go wear any cloth wey no go make people listen to our preaching.		Hence, we will forgo items or styles of clothing that we like but that could close the minds of people to whom we want to witness.
So wetin e mean for God spirit to dey direct person?		What, then, does it mean to be a " spiritual man "?
Some young people don go learn another language.		Some young Christians have learned another language.
That one dey pain reach bone, and e fit make life tire us.		Suppose we cannot simply forget the incident.
The kind contribution wey you fit send na:		The types of donations that you can send directly are the following:
The two no be the same thing.		There is a difference.
This brother later become Governing Body member.		He too later served as a member of the Governing Body.
This brothers and sisters comfort me and treat me fine like their pikin.		They comforted me and cared for me like a son.
This one mek am happy for the kind pikin wey e get. Jephthah know sey go happy because the pikin gree do wetin Jephthah don promise.		When her father saw her faith, he was very proud of her because he knew that her willingness would make happy.
This topic give us plenty advice from Bible wey go help us plan better thing for our life so that our tomorrow go better.		This article provides sound advice from the Scriptures that will help you to plan a happy and successful future.
Una Comot From Darkness, Nov.		Throw All Your Anxiety on, Dec.
We dey think sey wetin we do go make us stay the prison pass the three years wey dem first talk. But, e no happen like that.		We were summoned to the deputy warden 's office, fully expecting that our sentences would be extended.
We graduate from the 27th class of Gilead School for July 1956, and for November we come go where dem send us go for Brazil.		We graduated from the 27th class of Gilead School in July 1956, and by November we were in our assignment - Brazil.
Wetin Paul talk help us know something about when people go resurrect go heaven.		That gives us a general indication of the timing of the heavenly resurrection.
Wetin be some things wey person fit start to like pass?		What could we begin to love more than?
Wetin give dem and other Bible Student mind to serve well, na the strong love wey dem get for.		These Bible Students and others like them were determined to serve based on their understanding of love and loyalty.
Wetin go help us no be like people wey only love theirself?		How can we avoid becoming lovers of ourselves?
Wetin we go do to show sey we no forget wetin make save us?		How should our release from Babylon the Great affect us?
When some of im classmate see the tract Youths - What Will You Do With Your Life?, dem sey make e give dem.		Some classmates saw the tract Youths - What Will You Do With Your Life? and requested copies.
Which other promise person no suppose take play, and why?		What is the second most important vow that a person can make, and why?
Why e good to know where we suppose do reach?		Why is modesty important?
Why you dey sure sey go give you wetin you need every day?		Why are you convinced that can provide your daily needs?
You don buy something before wey be sey na advert or na the way dem take arrange am for shop make you buy am?		Have you ever purchased something, not because you needed it, but because it caught your eye in an advertisement or a store display?
You no happy sey talk this kind thing?		Do not these words reassure you?
You no think sey wetin dem do suppose pain Jesus? But, e no pain am.		Still, he had reason to feel disappointed, even hurt.
Zedekiah dey weak and na wicked king. Things no easy for Jerusalem when e dey rule.		A weak and wicked ruler, Zedekiah reigned during very dark days for Jerusalem.
See!		Look!
We still need to tell elders, because na dem fit help us near again.		We also need to approach the elders, who can offer us spiritual help.
Instead of us to dey think about our mistake, make we try learn from wetin happen.		Rather than continually berate ourselves, we should endeavor to learn from the mistake.
If we dey try to " think like Jesus, " how e go take help us become person wey God spirit dey direct?		How will our effort to have " the mind of Christ " help us to be spiritual people?
We thank sey e don give us Bible to help us cure this kind sickness. Make we dey always read am.		As a result, some develop an uncontrolled desire for material things - a desire that can never be fully satisfied.
But e get when Job mind comot for wetin suppose be the main thing.		Job refused to turn his back on God.
Matt. 14: 31; 2 Thess.		It is up to us.
Get am for mind sey wetin you do about the matter fit make your pikin continue to serve, or make am stop.		As a parent, realize that how you handle such questioning on the part of your son or daughter may influence whether your child will choose to draw closer to your faith or he will draw away from it.
Wetin make apostle Paul talk sey our preaching na better thing wey dey inside clay pot?		Why did the apostle Paul describe our ministry as a " treasure in earthen vessels "?
And wetin Jephthah come do?		How did Jephthah react?
Wetin we go talk about?		What will we discuss?
Which part of the new character Paul write for Colossians 3: 10 - 14?		What aspects of the new personality are recorded at Colossians 3: 10 - 14?
So I get many better example to follow.		So I had many fine examples to imitate.
Wetin God promise people wey dey serve am?		God 's servants look forward to what prize?
We happy sey we get better elders wey dey take care of us.		Are we not grateful that we have caring elders who endeavor to do that?
I spend two years for U.S.		I spent two years in the U.S.
Make elders self dey do research.		Elders too should take time to do research.
Be Better Friend Even When Una Friendship Want Scatter		Being a Friend When Friendship Is in Danger
After, brother John E. Barr serve as Governing Body member.		Barr, who later served on the Governing Body.
After, two of my senior brother and two of my senior sister come dey serve.		Later, four more of our siblings also became faithful.
And, na plenty dollar person fit take buy some of dem.		Some are valued in the millions of dollars.
And help me get one serious Bible student wey come dey do well.		But blessed me with a Bible student who made wonderful progress.
And e fit still happy if you help am find place for Bible wey dem dey read.		He might appreciate help to follow the program and perhaps to find scriptures being read.
Another one be sey, na small thing the Roman Catholic Church priests wey dey everywhere for this world, take pass 400,000.		Worldwide, the Roman Catholic Church has a little over 400,000 priests. Now consider the number of involved in the Bible - based Kingdom - preaching work.
Another problem still dey the congregation for Corinth.		Another problem in Corinth had to be addressed.
As water dey make clay soft, na so we go be for hand if we dey read Bible every day and we dey think about wetin we read.		As water softens clay, daily Bible reading and meditation can help us be malleable in 's hands.
But as time dey go, e fit no dey sweet you again.		But then the " newness " can wear off as time goes by.
But e no easy for everybody to greet other people.		But not all people are inclined to greet others.
But e tell dem wetin e for do if to sey na dem dey suffer like am. E sey: ' I go use wetin I dey talk with my mouth take make una strong, and wetin I go talk with my mouth go make una mind come down. '		He told them that if he had been in their place, he ' would have strengthened them with the words of his mouth, and the consolation of his lips would have brought them relief. '
But na only once a year dem dey pay dem money.		Peasants were given regular food supplies, but cash wages were paid only once a year.
But wetin im papa come do and wetin im papa talk, surprise am.		But what her father next did and said must have surprised her.
Dem come dey shout give me sey make I stop because dem dey fear sey the horse fit kick me.		Horrified that the horse might kick me, they screamed at me to stop - but I did not react.
Dem go use sword kill many of the Jews; and any of dem wey no die go be slave for Babylon. ( Jer.		Many Jews would die by the edge of the sword; any who escaped death would likely have to spend the rest of their lives in exile in Babylon.
Dem no go only dey tell their brothers wetin go give dem strong mind and make their mind come down. But, dem still need to show sey dem really care about dem. - 1 Cor.		Similarly, elders should not only encourage and console their brothers with words but also build them up by showing sincere personal interest. - 1 Cor.
Dem put me and other people wey pass one hundred for camp wey dem no dey too guide.		I was placed in a low - security camp along with several hundred other men.
Dem work together as one group to direct things for congregation. - Acts 15: 2.		As a governing body, they gave direction to all the congregations. - Acts 15: 2.
E bring im medicine container come out, clean the wound, rub am medicine, come bandage am.		She got out her first - aid kit, cleaned the wound with an antiseptic, and bandaged the finger.
E fit hard us to know where we suppose do reach if dem add join our work for congregation. Why?		Greater responsibility often comes with greater authority, and that can test our modesty.
E go make us dey put people matter before our own, and we go dey sofri do things so that we no go do serious mistake.		Modesty motivates us to consider others ahead of ourselves, and it encourages us to be cautious, thus avoiding serious mistakes.
E good make we think well well before we do something, because wetin we do fit make be our friend or make am vex for us. E still good for us to dey use wetin Bible talk take do something.		If we are concerned about the long - term effects our actions will have on our relationship with and if we base our decisions on his standards, then we are gaining practical wisdom.
E mean sey dem go make sure sey how dem and their pikin dey dress, dey make happy. ( Prov.		This includes making sure that they and their children strive to make God 's heart rejoice by their modest style of dress and grooming.
E no let those angel wey change to human being deceive am. The power wey those demons get go don surprise many people, and dem fit even don try to worship dem. ( Gen.		He was not fooled by the materialized demons, who surely impressed faithless, gullible humans with their superhuman abilities - perhaps even to the point of becoming objects of idolatry.
E pray well well make im Father help am and na wetin dem suppose do be that. - Mark 14: 32 - 41.		That is what his companions should have been doing. - Mark 14: 32 - 41.
E still good make dem know sey wey be our Papa, want make dem dey obey their papa and mama.		By speaking positively about their parents, young ones can help other youths view their own parents in a positive light.
E use example wey go make people think, wey go touch their mind and wey dem fit remember.		Children tend to have a vivid imagination.
Even self, that time, e get 13 people for my family wey e be sey some of dem na priest and some of dem dey work for church.		In fact, 13 of my relatives were priests or worked for the church.
FOR our last topic, we learn sey fake religion wey Bible call Babylon the Great, dey control correct Christians like slave.		IN THE preceding article, we learned how faithful Christians found themselves in a form of Babylonian captivity.
For 49 C.E., the apostle and elder dem for Jerusalem gather to talk whether people wey no be Jew suppose circumcise as dem don be Christian.		In 49 C.E., the apostles and the elders in Jerusalem met to consider whether circumcision would be required of Gentiles who converted to Christianity.
For King Asa time, still show sey im hand no too short.		also proved that his hand was not too short in King Asa 's day.
For November 19, 1954, we come finally reach Manila, the place wey we dey go.		We finally reached Manila on November 19, 1954.
For the example about the farmer, the seed na " the word of God, " or the good news about the Kingdom.		In the illustration of the sower, the seed is " the word of God, " or the Kingdom message.
How we fit prepare for am, and wetin we go gain when we go? How Memorial take dey help people for everywhere for this world to get one mind?		How can we prepare now for this occasion, how will we benefit from attending it, and how does that annual event contribute to the unity of God 's people everywhere?
How you go take plan to do full - time work for?		How can you make plans to enter the full - time ministry?
I baptize for 1989, when I dey 61 years.		I got baptized in 1989, when I was 61 years old.
If Job start to think like that, e fit remember wetin God don tell am.		Whatever his thoughts, he could reflect on God 's counsel.
If we dey think about their example, we go learn from the things wey Bible talk about dem. - Read Romans 15: 4.		Meditating on these examples can help us to benefit from the things that were written beforehand for our instruction. - Read Romans 15: 4.
If we see sey money and property don dey chance the love wey we get for Jesus, make we remember wetin Jesus talk. E sey: ' Make sure sey una no get long throat at all. '		If we realize that our love for material things is eclipsing our love for the Christ, we should reflect on Jesus ' words: " Guard against every sort of greed. "
Dey Bless People Wey Do Wetin E Want ( O.		Escape From Slavery, No. 2
Witness for Mexico today, almost reach one million. Dem still dey show sey dem like wetin people do for dem.		Today, as the number of publishers in Mexico steadily climbs toward the one million mark, that grateful spirit still prevails.
no dey force people do wetin e want.		s way of ruling is neither oppressive nor rigid.
talk sey King David na ' person wey dey do wetin dey sweet am. '		described King David as " a man agreeable to [ his ] heart. "
Jesus see dem as people wey dem abandon and ' dem no get who go help dem, like sheep wey no get shepherd. '		He felt compassion for the crowds he met, for " they were skinned and thrown about like sheep without a shepherd. "
Jim talk sey: " Everybody do wetin dem fit do to make sure sey the plan work. "		Jim recalled: " Everyone worked to make it a success. "
Make we no just dey think sey na only people wey get big house go fit help this kind people. Dem fit don do am plenty times.		We should not assume that only those who have very comfortable homes are in a position to help; they may already have done so many times.
Make we no just know some things for Bible. But e good make we understand Bible well well. ( Eph.		Become " thoroughly able to comprehend " the full scope of the truth.
Make we talk about three example of people for Bible wey come back to life.		Three accounts recorded in the inspired Scriptures may come to mind.
Maybe you still remember the first truth wey you learn from Bible, wey be like gold.		Perhaps you vividly recall the moment when you discovered your first spiritual gold nugget, so to speak.
My husband die for 2015 because of brain cancer.		Sadly, Walter died of brain cancer in 2015.
Na im make dem no dey give bribe at all.		Thus, they reject requests for any kind of gift at all.
Na me be the Person wey e de show you the road wey you suppose to follow. " ( Isa. 48: 17, 18 ) E good make we take time think about the things wey they fit guide us for Bible.		He himself says: " I, am your God, the One teaching you to benefit yourself, the One guiding you in the way you should walk. "
No forget sey everybody no be the same. All of us get how we take dey show sey something dey pain us.		Remember, too, that not everyone experiences and expresses grief in the same way.
One brother for South Korea remember the time when e give brothers and sisters place to stay. The brothers and sisters come attend some of the school wey organization arrange.		A brother in South Korea fondly remembers that he provided accommodations for students attending theocratic schools.
One circuit overseer write sey: " When I dey about 13 to 19 years, I get many question wey dey my mind.		A circuit overseer wrote: " As a teenager, I had many more questions or doubts than I ever put into words.
One of the thing wey Peter tell the brothers be sey, make dem " dey do good to " each other.		Among other things, Peter urged his brothers: " Be hospitable to one another. "
Our cloth and our hair dey show sey we respect and other people, or e dey show sey we no know where we suppose do reach?		Does our dress and grooming show respect for and others, or does it show a lack of modesty?
Our faith come really strong!		As a result, our faith was strengthened.
Paul talk sey: ' No dey carry wetin una do unaself for mind and no stop to dey use all una mind forgive unaself, even if na wetin suppose make you vex for the other person.		Paul mentioned one way when he wrote to fellow believers: " Continue putting up with one another and forgiving one another freely even if anyone has a cause for complaint against another.
Paul tell im brothers sey make dem ' wear faith and love as breastplate. ' ( 1 Thess.		Paul urged his brothers to " put on the breastplate of faith and love. "
People wey dey do wetin the flesh want dey let the sin wey dey their body dey control their life.		Those who live according to the flesh allow their life course to be determined basically by their sinful human nature.
People wey dey sell things dey use fine fine people take advertise wetin dem dey sell.		Clever advertisers often feature attractive people deceptively promoting as must - haves many things we really do not need.
Remember sey, Satan do wetin e do because e want dey control other people and want make dem know am. But we fit talk sey e dey happy? For where! ( Matt. 4: 8, 9; Rev.		Remember that the craving to control others and the longing to be admired are the desires that enticed Satan, but he is angry, not happy.
So if dem kill person by mistake, dem no need to run go other place where people no dey serve.		Since the cities of refuge were available, an unintentional manslayer was not forced to flee to a foreign land, where he might be tempted to take up false worship.
Sometimes, other people fit still help us know how our friendship with strong reach.		To analyze the state of our spirituality, we may at times need help from others.
That time for 1950, na me young pass for Bethel.		Back in 1950, I was the youngest member of the Bethel family.
The first time wey I go Venezuela, for zone visit, for 1970		My first zone visit in Venezuela, in 1970
The good thing be sey, many people wey get this kind character before, don change.		Many who formerly displayed such animalistic qualities have changed for the better.
The people wey dem stay with praise the brothers for their better character.		Householders, in turn, praised the delegates ' conduct.
The way we be, e dey hard us to be good people.		All of us are unrighteous by nature.
This kind thing fit still happen to people wey God don make im friend and wey e see as righteous people?		And could a similar danger today threaten Christians, whom God has accepted as his friends and views as righteous?
This one fit make us ask ourself say, " Wetin really want from each of e servant? "		So we might ask, " What is primarily looking for in each of us? "
To dey bless people na part of character.		Being a rewarder is an integral part of who is and what he does.
Today, Riana still dey help many people for the area to learn about.		Today, Riana is still sharing the Kingdom message with the many Tandroy - speaking people who want to learn about.
Upon all the wahala wey Gaius face, e no stop to treat brothers wey visit congregation as want.		Despite the challenges he faced, Gaius continued to serve faithfully.
We dey sure like Paul sey, go help us mek we fit endure go reach the end.		Like Paul, we are absolutely convinced that will help us endure to the end.
We dey use Bible take " show person how e go take live the kind life wey God want. "		God 's Word, our primary tool for training, enables us to ' discipline in righteousness. '
We don see sey e no good to play with wetin we don promise God. ( Prov.		How many of the vows that we have discussed have you made to God - one, two, or all three?
We love God and we want do wetin e tell us, because wetin e tell us no be heavy load.		We love God and want to obey him and be molded by him, recognizing that his commandments are not burdensome.
We no go do wetin God no like or put hand for politics and war matter if na wetin government want be that. - Read 1 Peter 2: 13 - 17.		We cannot go to the point of disobeying God or violating our Christian neutrality. - Read 1 Peter 2: 13 - 17.
We still dey use am support our preaching work for there.		Voluntary contributions help to supply literature and support the preaching work in territories where poverty abounds but where there is great spiritual growth.
Wetin come help am? E go temple go worship am. ( Ps.		He had developed a wrong viewpoint and had become greatly troubled, but he was able to correct his thinking when he entered God 's place of worship.
Wetin e talk show sey, for am to give us freedom, e get things wey we go do, and things wey we no suppose do. Because we don give our life to God, we no dey do wetin we want.		As dedicated Christians, we have disowned ourselves and have chosen to live within the bounds of Christ 's teachings as his disciples.
Wetin go help us fit know whether we no dey support work as we suppose to? E good make we check ourself whether we dey use our mind do work.		How can we determine that we are not being overcome by indifference toward 's work?
Wetin go help us trust even for great tribulaton?		What will help us to face the future with full confidence?
Wetin make our time different?		Why is the time that we live in unique?
When e husband die, e run comot from Eritrea with im six young children because of the wahala for there.		A Christian sister related that her family fled the persecution in Eritrea.
When other people see the one mind wey we get for congregation, e go make dem come learn about.		It produces united congregations that reflect well on and that attract newly interested ones.
Where e dey for Bible sey person go pay priest money so that the priest go do service for person wey don die?		of paid masses for the dead?
Why we sure sey go save im people?		Why can we be sure that will save his people?
You still remember how you enjoy am when person invite you go im house?		Did that occasion not leave you with warm memories?
How we go take show sey we value the freedom wey give us?		We need to consider, though, how can we show that we treasure our freedom?
So, make we no play with the better things wey God don give us. Make we continue to show sey we value dem.		Therefore, we must work hard to safeguard our affections and protect our love and appreciation for spiritual riches.
For example, you don hear something for Watchtower Study before, wey mek you come dey work more more for pass before?		For example, have you attended a Watchtower Study that made you want to do more in 's service, to improve your prayers, or to forgive a brother or a sister?
As Bible talk sey make we ' continue to dey change, ' that one show sey no be one day work.		The expression " continue to be made new " indicates that putting on the new personality is an ongoing process.
Job no think sey e better pass other people, e treat everybody like im brother, whether dem rich or dem poor.		He did not elevate himself above others but showed brotherly concern for all, rich and poor.
How we go take make elders enjoy their work?		How can we make the elders ' work more pleasant for them?
Wetin go help young people no fall for this trap?		What can help young Christians to resist pressures to engage in wrong conduct?
Wetin be some things wey fit hard us to change even if we don baptize?		What changes may it be hard for us to make after our baptism?
If we serve God well and we die before Armageddon, God go resurrect us enter paradise. For there, we go get plenty better work to do.		If we die faithful before Armageddon, we will be resurrected into a righteous new world, where there will be plenty of satisfying work for us to do.
Wetin fit make us no trust and im organization again?		Under what circumstances might our personal sense of justice be tested?
We go still try make we dey control wetin the sin wey dey our body fit make us do. And we fit even stop some of dem.		It also involves endeavoring to control our imperfect tendencies, even eliminating them where possible.
When Babylon win Assyrian, dem come take over. Na so Israel people take full everywhere for the area wey Babylon dey rule that time.		Thus, the majority of those Israelites were by that time scattered throughout the Babylonian Empire, which had supplanted the Assyrian Empire.
The things wey Jacob talk and wetin e do, show sey e dey think about wetin God like, and e want make wetin God talk happen.		Jacob 's words and actions reveal that he had God 's standards and will in mind.
Joseph suffer as slave and prisoner for 13 years.		His ordeal as a slave and a prisoner lasted for about 13 years.
And make our prayer dey show sey we dey remember our brothers ' wey dey prison like sey we dey prison with dem. '		Also, our prayers should reflect that we " keep in mind those in prison, as though [ we ] were imprisoned with them. "
Na wetin Joseph tell im brothers when dem dey go back go meet their papa be that.		Joseph gave that advice to his brothers who were returning to their father.
When King Hezekiah dey rule, Assyria army want fight with people for Jerusalem and their army plenty well well.		Later, King Hezekiah faced an overwhelming force of Assyrian soldiers who threatened to invade Jerusalem.
Another time, e tell dem sey: ' Give us every day wetin we go chop for that day as we take need am. '		Or as he put it on a later occasion: " Give us each day our bread according to our daily needs. "
Wetin dey Job 2: 4, 5 wey go help us endure problem?		According to Job 2: 4, 5, what is involved when we face trials?
After, e come make hot tea for John. But as the sister dey do all this things, e sofri dey tell am things about Bible.		Then she made John a cup of hot tea, all the while talking to him in a friendly manner about the Bible.
And I start to study Bible with am.		She progressed to baptism, and later, so did her husband and two sons.
And all of dem dey together, no wahala. Na one small boy dey carry dem waka.		One picture, " he wrote, " showed the wolf and the lamb, the kid and the leopard, the calf and the lion - all in peace, being led by a little boy.
And how all of us, even young people, fit fight and win Satan?		And how can all of us, including young Christians, resist him?
Angelines and im husband don try to study Bible with me many times.		Angelines and her husband asked me many times whether I wanted to study the Bible with them.
Another thing wey fit make am hard to know where we suppose do reach, na when dem too dey praise us.		Excessive flattery or praise can test our modesty as well.
Another thing wey help me be sey, since organization no too get books for Tagalog language, na English own I come dey read pass.		Another thing that helped me to improve my English was the fact that we had very few Bible publications in Tagalog.
Apart from that one, e no get any problem wey big pass, the Person wey fit help you for any problem wey you get.		Moreover, there is no situation beyond the control of the God on whom you can throw all your anxiety.
As people start to read Bible for language wey dem understand, dem come get place for Bible wey dey sweet dem to read. Na so e still be for many of us today.		As readers considered the Holy Writings in a language they could understand, no doubt many came to have a favorite portion, just as we do today.
Because many people dey enter organization, we come need to build big branch office.		Our resulting need for larger branch facilities was met in 1988.
But, you no need to dey worry about wetin never happen.		However, you need not be consumed by anxiety, or worry, over events that you do not know anything about.
But Joseph no join dem. Bible call am better person.		Its members connived to have him put to death.
But how God take dey correct us?		How, though, does God discipline us?
But the place where people no really dey, na for those village wey far well well for inside.		Thus, 's people have shown determination to find individuals in remote parts of the continent.
But today, we de even do work wey e pass that one. And na de help us.		But we are accomplishing much more today under 's guiding hand.
But when we look the matter well for Bible, we come see am sey no be must sey person go be firstborn before the Messiah go come from im family.		However, a review of Bible accounts shows that a man did not need to be a firstborn son to be an ancestor of the Messiah.
Daniel talk sey: ' Before we comot for Spain, we no believe sey we go fit live simple life.		Daniel relates: " Before we left Spain, we were not sure if we would be able to live a simple life.
Dem ask one sister wey don already dey preach for Ghana many question.		They contacted a sister who was serving where the need is greater in Ghana and asked her many questions.
Dem dey see sey you dey try and you dey hear as dem dey tell you sey mek you continue!		They also see your struggle, but they are cheering you on!
Dem dey teach for different different village.		But I visited them in different villages and encouraged them to study the Bible.
Dem write letter go give United States president. For the letter, dem talk sey dem no go kill anybody because Bible talk sey make dem no kill.		In a petition for clemency addressed to the president of the United States, they wrote: " The Lord 's will is as announced in the Scriptures, ' Thou shalt not kill, ' and therefore any member of the [ International Bible Students ] Association so consecrated unto the Lord who would willingly violate his covenant of consecration would forfeit for himself God 's favor, even to his complete destruction.
E fit get person for your congregation wey you no like how e dey talk or do things.		Perhaps there is in your congregation a brother whose speech and actions irritate you.
E fit still help us learn new new way to take teach people truth for Bible when we dey preach.		Moreover, we may learn fresh ways to explain our beliefs when we are engaging in the ministry.
E no good if you no do anything as your servant no dey with im cloth. "		You must not remain silent when your servant is without his garment. "
E pain the woman for body sotey e travel 19 miles ( 30 km ) go meet Elisha for one mountain wey dem dey call Mount Carmel.		Imagine the mother 's crushing grief. With her husband 's permission, she traveled about 19 miles ( 30 km ) to Elisha at Mount Carmel.
E sey: ' No fear because of all the thing wey you hear, all the things wey Assyria king servant don talk, to lie about me. '		Do not be afraid because of the words that you heard,. with which the attendants of the king of Assyria blasphemed me.
E think say I no well, na e make I come see doctor.		he asked, thinking that I had come for medical advice.
Even self, the oga for the court wey dey train Daniel give dem Babylon name. ( Dan.		Moreover, the court official in charge of their training gave them Babylonian names.
Even with that one, e go still sweet us sey we do am for dem. For example, e get some brothers wey dey help Governing Body dey arrange wetin we dey learn from Bible. This brothers no dey do " notice me. "		For instance, the brothers who support the Governing Body in helping to prepare spiritual food do so anonymously, not drawing attention to themselves or revealing the material they have worked on.
Example na food, cloth and where to put head. Na this things be wetin we really need for life.		Food, clothing, and shelter - these are legitimate necessities.
For 1947, they divide India in two, one side be India and the other side be Pakistan.		In 1947, the country was partitioned into India and Pakistan.
For March 1965, come bless us with circuit work.		In March 1965 we were privileged to begin serving congregations in the traveling work.
For example, Bible tell us sey: ' Love dey patient and e get good mind. '		For example, we read that love is " patient and kind. "
For example, Jesus see sey to help people learn the good news dey really sweet. E still see sey e dey sweet to do wetin want even when e dey face wahala.		For example, he learned the joy of reaching hearts with the good news and also the joy of keeping integrity under test.
For example, dem flog Jesus apostles because dem dey tell people about Jesus.		For example, the apostles were flogged for speaking about the Christ.
For example, e get one woman for Jesus time wey im name na Anna. Na prophet e be.		In Jesus ' day, the prophetess Anna lost her husband after only seven years of marriage.
For example, e talk about King David, prophet Elijah, and apostle Paul.		We read of King David, the prophet Elijah, and the apostle Paul.
For only 1914, the number of people wey watch the film plenty pass the number of Witness wey dey the whole world today!		The number of people who saw that presentation in 1914 alone was greater than the total number of Kingdom publishers active in the world today!
From 1870, which work Brother Russell do?		Beginning in the late 19th century, what important role did Brother Russell play?
Hezekiah example go help us make we no begin raise shoulder.		The lesson we can learn from Hezekiah involves the heart.
I dey judge well and I dey do wetin correct for the earth. This kind thing dey sweet me well well. ' ( Jer.		He does not look to any written code of laws made by imperfect men as a basis for determining what is just and fair.
If dem disfellowship person pikin, how e go show sey e trust?		How should parents demonstrate their trust in God if their child is disfellowshipped?
If grass dey grow well well for where you plant flower, you go clear am comot make e no spoil the flower, no be so?		Will you similarly work toward that goal and the related goal of peace?
If person do wetin pain us, wetin we go do?		How should we approach someone who has offended us?
If we study wetin dey there, we go gain from the favor wey God show. We go still gain when we continue to put our mind for wetin go give us life wey no go end.		Studying that material can help us to benefit from God 's undeserved kindness and to maintain our focus on what will result in our everlasting good.
If you don already study this book finish, e get other books wey go make your faith strong. E good make you study dem. ( Col.		If you have already finished studying that book, can you move on to other study materials that can help you to stabilize your faith?
Instead, make we dey tell people about the good things wey don do for us.		We can speak appreciatively of.
Israel people fit still serve again the way e want?		Would the Israelites ever again be able to worship God in a completely acceptable way?
Jesus stand near the Sea dey look dem.		From the beach, the resurrected Jesus observed the group.
Make we see wetin this one mean for us.		Let us see what meaning that should have for us.
Make we self dey do like Paul. - Rom.		The Romans needed to imitate him, and so do we. - Rom.
Make we still dey carry body down, dey trust, and dey do wetin e like.		Like Daniel, therefore, let us draw close to, our God.
Many of im classmate get people wey dem dey sleep with. Mouth no dey heavy dem to talk am come out for school. Dem dey even use am make mouth.		Most of her classmates were sexually active, and after a typical weekend, they boasted of their latest sexual encounters.
Martin Luther, William Tyndale, and John Calvin gain from how e take explain Bible. - wp16.6, pp.		His explanation of Bible passages influenced Martin Luther, William Tyndale, and John Calvin. - wp16.6, pp.
Micah dey when King Ahaz dey rule. Ahaz na wicked king and things bad well well for im time.		He lived during the reign of wicked King Ahaz, a time when all sorts of corruption prevailed.
Na Australia e dey stay.		This has led to rich blessings.
Na only how to get money people dey talk about for there. E no fit preach to anybody, so e tell some Bethelite sey, ' The place wey I no go like stay na Portugal. '		She was unable to start a Bible conversation with anyone, so she said to some Bethelites, " The last place on earth I would want to live is Portugal. " Surprise!
Na true sey Jesus promise dem sey God go give dem holy spirit.		True, Jesus had assured them that they would soon receive holy spirit.
Na wetin I dey talk about for the beginning of this story be this.		Hence, the comment made at the beginning of this story.
Na wetin help me continue to serve be that. '		It helped me to keep serving.
Na wetin my papa take threaten my mama for 1941 be that.		My father threatened my mother with those words in 1941.
Nadia talk sey, " Small small, we come dey reduce our property until wetin remain fit enter four bag! "		Nadia relates, " Gradually, we downsized our belongings until all we had left fitted into four suitcases! "
No be better thing to dey tell dem word wey go make dem strong and to praise dem?		Should we not commend and encourage them?
One thing wey make am dey Bible be sey, e go help us know why e good make we dey make peace and how we go fit make peace with people.		Well, one reason is that it helps imperfect humans learn why they need to keep peace.
Paul call am ' Jesus better soldier. ' E come still tell am sey: ' Nobody wey be soldier dey put hand for other business for life to get money, so that the person wey choose am as soldier go happy with am. '		After calling Timothy " a fine soldier of Christ Jesus, " Paul told him: " No man serving as a soldier involves himself in the commercial businesses of life, in order to gain the approval of the one who enrolled him as a soldier. "
Plenty people wey they come our meeting, don see as our children de answer question for meeting.		Many newcomers have observed that our children participate at meetings.
See wetin some people write to help their friend wey im person die:		Here is what some have written to comfort bereaved friends:
Since dem just come, we need to give our refugee brothers food, cloth, and other things wey dem need.		At first, we may need to supplement our brothers ' food, clothing, or other basic needs.
So make we do everything wey we fit do to make sure sey we get am.		That is surely a prize worth striving for.
So they send some people make they tell Rehoboam wetin de worry the people for mind. They talk say: " Your papa make things hard for us.		In time, representatives of the people came to him and set their concerns squarely before him: " Your father made our yoke harsh.
Some of dem never reach 13 years, and some dey between 13 and19 years.		Baptism opens the door to many blessings; it also involves responsibility.
Sometimes, you fit pair them with young brothers or sisters so that they fit help them.		In some cases, you may choose to assign them to work with a younger companion who can provide physical support.
The small boy laugh, e come tell am sey " I know. "		The little boy smiled and said, " Yes, I know. "
Then the prison guard ask them say: " Wetin I must do so that I go get life? "		The distressed jailer asked: " What must I do to get saved? "
Think about wetin you read		Meditate on it
This kind person dey think like people wey dey this world.		The world has a predominant attitude that centers on the flesh.
Today, wetin Matthew and Luke write about the family wey Jesus come from, na something wey dey make our faith strong. E still dey give us the mind sey, all the things wey promise must happen.		Today, both Matthew 's and Luke 's genealogical records remain a part of the foundation of our faith and a testimony to the sureness of the promises of God.
We dey use the bus travel go other town wey near where we dey. We still dey use am travel go other village every weekend to preach.		Our congregation even bought a bus so that we could travel to neighboring towns and villages each weekend.
We go learn how this vision take help Israel people and how e fit help us today.		Also, what lessons can we today learn from this?
We no need to get long list to show us the type of cloth wey good to wear or the one wey no good.		We do not need detailed lists saying which styles of dress are acceptable and which are objectionable.
Wetin name show, and how Satan take spoil that holy name?		What does 's name embrace, and how did Satan slander that sacred name?
Wetin Romans 8: 6 no mean?		To what does Paul 's warning at Romans 8: 6 not apply?
Wetin e come do? E forget about the matter.		As a result, the issue went no further.
Wetin go help papa and mama wey pack go another country know the language wey dem go use take teach their children Bible?		In helping their children spiritually, why should immigrant parents evaluate the matter of language?
Wetin go help us take am easy with people wey come from another place?		What will help us to be more understanding toward those who are adjusting to a new country?
Wetin go make us continue to value dem? Make we dey remember wetin make us first like dem.		To hold on to them, we must use them well and constantly renew our love for them.
Wetin help this our sister come de make peace with people more - more?		What has helped her to become more peaceable?
Wetin make choose Mary to be Jesus mama?		Why did choose Mary to become Jesus ' mother?
Wetin make John tell Gaius make e still dey treat visitors well, when e already dey do am?		Why did John urge Gaius to continue showing hospitality when he was already doing so?
Wetin the business man for Jesus story want do to fit buy that fine stone?		What was the merchant in Jesus ' illustration willing to do to gain the priceless pearl?
Wetin you go dey do to get strong faith, and wetin we go talk about for the next topic?		What are you determined to do, and what will be discussed in the next article?
When one woman born pikin, wetin e want do, but wetin help am do the correct thing?		When her son was born, what choice did one mother have to make, and what helped her to make the right one?
Which kind problem Joseph come get, and how im example fit help us today?		Joseph experienced what long and difficult challenge, and how did his response set a good example for us?
Who go take care of us when we don old?		How will we look after ourselves in our old age?
You dey use all this things wey our organization dey give us?		Do you take full advantage of these provisions?
You ready to fight to do wetin good so that go bless you?		Are you willing to exert yourself to gain 's favor and, as it were, wrestle for it?
Na about 15 people we dey study Bible with before but we come make am 10 so that we fit dey study with dem well.		We used to have 15 or more Bible studies, but we limited the number to 10 so that we could teach our students more thoroughly.
Give.		Pay back.
We must get faith sey ready to help us and e fit help us do wetin good.		We certainly need faith in God, not doubting his willingness and ability to help us to be wise.
go use Jesus blood take do wetin we tell am.		responds to that request by applying the cleansing blood of Christ 's sacrifice to us.
For Israel time, why e good to go meet elders if person kill somebody by mistake?		Why was it wise for a fugitive to approach the elders?
[CONTENT_REMOVED]		See opening picture and the box " Are You Willing to Try a Different Method? " )
Wetin talk don really happen for this last days.		That prophetic statement has certainly come true in these last days.
And talk sey wetin Job dey tell people about am na true. - Job 42: 7, 8.		Moreover, himself stated that Job spoke truthfully about Him. - Job 42: 7, 8.
But apart from this word, e get another word wey Jesus use wey show sey e dey respect women well well.		But there was another word that was more than polite.
So, e come promise sey: ' If you help me make I win Ammon people and I no die for their hand, I go make sure sey anybody wey come out from my house come greet me when I come back, go be your own. '		Earnestly desiring a victory, Jephthah vowed: " If you give the Ammonites into my hand, then whoever comes out of the door of my house to meet me when I return in peace from the Ammonites will become 's. "
But wetin Jesus talk for there no mean sey make we dey think only about wetin we need.		But that counsel does not mean that our material provisions should dominate our thinking.
E dey happy with any work wey dem give am for congregation, and e dey do am well.		Modesty helps us to be satisfied with and productive in our assigned place in God 's arrangement.
The better thing be sey no be only wetin Ruth go take dey live give am.		Significantly, did much more than just provide for Ruth materially.
When we de think deep about wetin Bible talk, holy spirit de help us understand how de do things.		As we meditate on the Bible 's message, God 's spirit helps us to understand 's thinking on many matters.
Na go teach everybody wey go dey that time.		Everyone then living on earth will be taught by God.
As Jesus wey be ' head for congregation ' take dey show love, na so husband as head of im wife, suppose dey show am love.		Just as Christ, the " head of the congregation, " displays love, a Christian husband is to exercise loving headship.
Devil want make we put all our body for business. E want make we use all our time dey find money.		Satan would like nothing better than to have us spend all our time and energy as slaves to his commercial world.
Wetin make God dey forgive us like that?		What motivates God to forgive so freely?
After, for Egypt, e go prison for wetin e no do. ( Gen.		He later had to endure years of unjust imprisonment in Egypt.
All of us dey do things wey fit make other people vex.		All humans have faults that can hurt others.
All this people no come Matthew house just because of food.		They were not at Matthew 's home simply to eat.
Among the people na two neighbor for the area wey dey arrange the hair wey dem comot from sheep body.		These include two neighbors who are combing the wool from literal sheep in that area.
And after dem don record different different talk, for evening for summer time ( hot season for oyibo country ), dem go dey play am give people for preaching.		He remembered groups on bicycles spending whole days in the ministry and in the summer evenings playing recorded talks.
And e preach to all im family people. Six month after the convention, e do im first Bible reading for meeting.		He preached to all his relatives, and just six months after the convention, he gave his first Bible reading at the Kingdom Hall.
Another gift go help them.		With the help of yet another gift.
Apart from Heldai, Tobijah, and Jedaiah, talk sey other people go join dem build the temple.		In addition to the support of faithful ones like Heldai, Tobijah, and Jedaiah, God tells of many others who would " come and take part in building the temple of. "
As politician and people wey dey lead for church dey support different different country for the war, the Bible Student dem dey support the ' Prince of Peace. '		While politicians and church leaders in effect hoisted national banners, the Bible Students held to the " Prince of Peace. "
As the number of pioneer dey plenty well well, some brothers come dey think wetin dem fit do to help dem.		As the number of pioneers increased sharply, responsible brothers considered practical ways to support this growing army.
As we de answer this question, we go talk about lessons wey we fit learn.		As we discuss these questions, we will also consider the lessons we can learn.
Because of oversabi, Adam and Eve with Satan, no support.		True, as creatures with free will, they could choose independence from God.
Because potopoto full everywhere, Sisera run leave im horse wey get iron. E come run go where dem dey call Zaanannim.		At some point along the way, Sisera abandoned his once frightening but now useless chariot and ran to Zaanannim, perhaps near Kedesh.
Because the gold wey dey the body no heavy reach one tablespoon of salt!		Because high - quality ore may contain only about 0.3 troy ounce ( 10 g ) of gold per ton of rock!
But, law no dey change as weather take dey change. - Mal.		s standards, however, do not fluctuate with the weather. - Mal.
But Bible no talk like that.		But such a view is not Scriptural.
But Jesus talk say that kind thing no good at all.		Jesus condemned racial pride.
But after, e come see sey that kind life dey only give am problem and e no really make am happy.		In time, however, he understood that his focus on entertainment had only led to problems and disappointments.
But e clear for their eye sey na angel dey help Moses because of the way e take teach and guide dem.		However, the way Moses instructed and guided the people made it clear that he had superhuman help.
But that night, e lie sey e no know am. - Matt.		Peter had openly declared that he would never abandon his Master, but on that very night, Peter denied knowing Jesus! - Matt.
But we believe wetin Jesus promise about resurrection.		Christians firmly believe Jesus ' promise of a coming resurrection.
But wetin want be sey, make our cloth dey clean, good for eye, fit the kind place wey we want wear am go, and make e be the type wey no go make people for our area vex.		But our clothes should always be neat, clean, modest, appropriate to the occasion, and acceptable locally.
Dem carry Gustav Kujath go where craze people dey stay, come give am medicine wey no good for im body.		Some of them were classed as mentally ill, such as Gustav Kujath, who was put in a mental institution and drugged.
Dem even suffer us sometimes but no leave us. ( 2 Cor.		There was even some persecution, but we were " not abandoned. "
Dem go preaching together, dem go meeting together, and dem visit each other for house.		Brothers and sisters from both congregations shared in the preaching work, attended meetings together, and enjoyed hospitality at the homes of one another.
Dem stay there for years, but no be better place to stay.		Yet, they were not safe there.
E do good thing.		Commendably!
E fit still be sey na the two Jesus dey talk about. After Jesus die, Peter go back to im fish business.		After Jesus ' death, Peter returned to his former occupation - fishing.
E fit surprise us sey many people dey behave like this.		Though we may be shocked by the prevalence of such qualities, we could be influenced by the behavior and attitudes of those who display them.
E go soon give us life wey no go end. ( Rev.		Soon, he will lead us to everlasting life.
E good make we know who we fit praise and where to praise am reach.		Balance is needed in determining what kind of honor should be rendered to other humans and to what extent.
E good make we remember sey no matter where we come from, we dey sin and God no suppose save us. ( Rom.		We might reflect on the fact that none of us deserve salvation; we are all imperfect humans, regardless of our nationality.
E manage get one of the book wey Bible Student print, e really like the truth wey e learn, and e come stop to fight as soldier.		He somehow got a Bible Student publication, wholeheartedly embraced Kingdom truth, and laid down his weapons.
E no tey, we come dey do book study and Watchtower Study for our room wey dey the hotel. Na about 15 people dey come.		Soon we were holding the book study and the weekly Watchtower Study in our hotel room, with about 15 attending.
E preach because e love people and e value their life. ( 1 Cor.		Rather, he loved people, and their lives were precious to him.
Eliphaz wey be Temanite come ask Job sey: ' Wetin God dey use human being do?		CAN a man be of use to God?
Even when weather cold well well like freezer, dem dey tell am to uproot tree.		She was ordered to uproot trees, even in freezing weather.
For 1962, we happy as dem invite us go the 37th class for Gilead.		Then in 1962, we were thrilled to receive an invitation to the 37th class of Gilead.
For 1964, dem give my husband one new work as branch servant for Irish Republic.		In 1964, Arthur received a new assignment as branch servant in the Irish Republic.
For Jesus time, people still use music worship am. Dem no play with am.		With the establishment of the Christian congregation, music continued to be a prominent feature of true worship.
For example, I learn one better thing when I follow Brother Theodore Jaracz do zone visit for one branch office.		I learned a valuable lesson assisting Brother Theodore Jaracz on a zone visit.
For example, our brothers suffer when one heavy breeze wey dem dey call Super Typhoon Haiyan, blow for November 2013 for Philippines.		For instance, in November 2013, Super Typhoon Haiyan ripped through the central part of the Philippines, destroying the homes of over 1,000 Witness families.
How brothers wey don baptize fit show sey dem get strong mind?		How can baptized brothers show themselves courageous?
How our meeting take dey help us near and Jesus?		How do we draw close to and Jesus at meetings?
I dey listen when dem dey study with my mama, and I even follow am go meeting sometimes.		I would listen to their conversations and even accompany Mother to some congregation meetings.
If na wetin happen be that, then dem really dey different from Jael wey get mind! - Judg.		What a contrast that would have been to Jael 's courageous action described in the very next verses! - Judg.
If we do anything to support work, e go bless us.		Whatever we do to advance the interests of 's Kingdom makes us spiritually rich.
If you want get better voice when you dey sing, check December 2014 JW Broadcasting for English ( check where video dey for FROM OUR STUDIO ).		For more instruction on improving the singing voice, see the December 2014 monthly program on JW Broadcasting ( video category FROM OUR STUDIO ).
Instead, make we look for how we go take use our freedom take give our best.		If we do so, we can look forward to enjoying the blessings has promised when the words of this prophecy are fulfilled: " The creation itself will also be set free from enslavement to corruption and have the glorious freedom of the children of God. " - Rom.
Like that pilot, Adam and Eve want do wetin dey their mind.		Like that pilot, Adam and Eve wanted to do things their own way.
Many people don use all this different different way support the work wey we dey do for and our neighbor for the whole world.		By using such methods of charitable giving, many have helped to support our religious and humanitarian activities worldwide and maximize tax benefits.
Mark 15: 43 tell us sey: ' Joseph no fear to go meet Pilate, and e tell am sey e want collect Jesus body. '		That decision is indicated by the words of Mark 15: 43: " He took courage and went in before Pilate and asked for the body of Jesus. "
My husband don die, and my body no strong as e strong before.		My husband has died, and I cannot do as much as I used to.
Na help Israel people win Amalek and Ethiopia people. Na im still give Nehemiah and im people power to fit build Jerusalem fence finish.		helped the Israelites to defeat the Amalekites and the Ethiopians, and he gave Nehemiah and his associates the power to complete the rebuilding work.
Na im and im wife be the first Witness for Dominican Republic, and na 1957 dem come Puerto Rico.		He and his wife were the first of in the Dominican Republic, and they had arrived in Puerto Rico in 1957.
Na that one simple pass. '		That is easier. "
No be everybody dey fit pioneer for many years like John and Judith. Some people dey only get chance to pioneer for some time.		Unlike John and Judith, others have circumstances that allow them to serve full - time for only a short period.
No dey keep wetin you no dey use again		Dispose of things you do not use
Other people dey wey believe sey if wetin science talk no be true, dem no go dey teach am for school.		Others say that they believe in evolution because they feel that it would not be taught at school were it not a fact.
Plenty brothers and sisters go tell you sey this verse don help dem.		There are millions of brothers and sisters who can assure you that it has helped them.
Proverbs 4: 13 talk sey: " Hold correction well, and no let am go.		As Proverbs 4: 13 states, " hold on to discipline; do not let it go.
Remember sey Joseph carry im family run from im place when Jesus still small. Dem no come fit go back because the people wey dey cause wahala that time still dey rule.		As with young Jesus and his family, refugees may not have the option of returning to their homeland as long as their oppressors remain in power.
SONG: 49, 73		SONGS: 49, 73
So make you continue to dey do everything wey you fit do to save yourself!		You have every reason, then, to keep working out your own salvation!
Some of dem even read their letter for church service make people hear.		In some cases, they read the letters publicly at church meetings.
The brother wey e later marry wey im name na Peter, hear wetin Governing Body talk sey make publishers for Britain wake up. This one come dey make am think about how e go take pioneer.		Peter, who later became Joyce 's husband, heard the " Wake Up " call, prompting him to " start thinking about pioneering. "
The story about Leonard Smith life dey for The Watchtower of April 15, 2012.		Leonard Smith 's life story appeared in The Watchtower of April 15, 2012.
This one help me learn many things from Bible and how to use am teach people.		I am sorry to say that when I was little, I didn 't fully appreciate the truth.
Today, dey use Bible guide us.		Today, guides us with his Word, the Bible.
We don try do anything wey we see sey na wetin want, and we don see sey na this kind life sweet pass!		We have endeavored to accept whatever we perceived to be 's will, and this has been a most satisfying way to live.
We fit still use one mind work together even though sey we get different character.		Thus, different personalities need not produce conflict - not then, not today.
We suppose dey praise and respect brothers and sisters for congregation, especially elders, circuit overseer, Branch Committee, and Governing Body wey dey direct us.		This is especially true of the elders who are taking the lead.
Wetin Matthew and Luke write about the family wey Jesus come from show sey Jesus na the Messiah wey God promise sey go come.		The genealogical lists by Matthew and Luke clearly establish that Jesus was the foretold Messiah.
Wetin be some of the things wey go help us quick learn am? Dey listen to how dem take sing dem for jw.org.		You can do so by listening to the vocal renditions available on jw.org.
Wetin e come do?		What did he do?
Wetin happen to the Jews don happen to correct Christians before?		Does the Babylonian captivity find a parallel in Christian times?
Wetin person wey no dey do oversabi go first put for mind before e gree do another work for congregation?		What does a modest person take into consideration when thinking about making spiritual progress?
Wetin real love go make us do?		What will genuine love move us to do?
Wetin we fit learn from this advice?		What can we learn from Jesus ' counsel?
When apostle Peter warn us sey make we no use our freedom anyhow, e still tell us the better thing wey we suppose use am do.		In his warning against the misuse of freedom, Peter also pointed out the objective.
When the wheat grow and come start to dey bring fruit, the grass still grow. '		When the stalk sprouted and produced fruit, then the weeds also appeared. "
When this one no work, dem come arrange things like sey dem want kill am.		When that failed to break his resolve, guards staged a mock execution.
Which work give papa for family?		What Scriptural responsibility do family heads have?
Why we talk so?		Why can we say that?
You go don greet person like that before. No be so?		No doubt you have often used a greeting such as that.
You think sey Israel people wey gather with Moses for there no know sey their God na ' one '?		Did the Israelites gathered there with Moses not know that their God is " one "?
do the work wey give us well?		succeed in our assignments?
Our God Na One, ' June		Our God Is One, " June
We don come sabi the love wey God get for us and we trust that love.		We have come to know and believe the love that God has for us.
How e de try to use e power control people?		How does he try to exert that influence on individuals?
Many of this country wey e win come begin speak Greek language. Na so e still be for many Jews wey dey live for those country.		As that empire spread, Greek became the common language of many of its subjects, including Jews who were scattered over a vast area.
So e clear sey na choose Moses to lead Im people.		The evidence was clear: had selected Moses to be the leader of His people.
Wetin make Jesus talk like that?		Why did Jesus give that serious warning?
This love de make us no tire to preach because we know say people fit change when their condition change.		We are moved by such love to endure in this work, recognizing that people may have a change of heart when their circumstances change.
David know sey the love wey get for am no go ever fail.		David trusted in 's loyal love.
When King Hezekiah hear sey Assyria people want come attack dem, wetin e do?		What did King Hezekiah do when threatened by Assyrian King Sennacherib?
Which gift John 15: 15 talk about?		What gift is mentioned at John 15: 15?
Give example of wetin fit happen if sleep catch watchman as e dey do im work?		Give an example of what could happen when watchmen fell asleep on the job.
How papa and mama fit help their children answer question for meeting?		How can parents help their children to participate at meetings?
Wetin de see as e de look e servants and people for this world?		What contrast does see when he observes today 's world?
Wetin we learn about from the way e treat Job?		What do 's dealings with Job reveal about Him?
Wetin papa and mama fit dey think when their pikin tell dem sey e want baptize?		How do some Christian parents respond when their child asks to get baptized?
Which story Jesus talk about the owner of one farm? ( b ) Wetin this story dey teach us about open hand and favor?		Describe Jesus ' illustration of the owner of the vineyard. ( b ) How does the story illustrate the qualities of generosity and undeserved kindness?
E still use the work wey people dey do for talk about dem.		Spiritual assignments or privileges also identify people.
This one no mean sey the husband better pass im wife.		This arrangement does not make a wife inferior to her husband.
Apart from that one, no matter how we know book reach or how we old reach, we go still be pikin for where dey. - Isa.		And no matter how much knowledge or experience we gain, we will always be like children in comparison with. - Isa.
After, when dem feel sey dem don get time to learn Malagasy language, dem come go congregation wey dey use Malagasy language.		Later, when they felt ready to tackle the local language, they moved to a Malagasy - speaking congregation.
After some time, I no continue again because I no really sabi the sport.		I wasn 't very good, so after a few bouts, I gave it up.
Alastair Kerr wey know law matter well well talk sey for 533 C.E., one Roman Emperor wey im name na Justinian write one book wey dem dey call Digest. The book talk about Roman law and some part of wetin the people wey know law talk ( about 100 - 250 C.E. ).		Legal scholar Alastair Kerr explains that in 533 C.E., Roman Emperor Justinian published his Digest, a summary of Roman law and excerpts from jurists of the classical period of the law ( about 100 - 250 C.E. ).
All of us fit help and encourage each other ( Check paragraph 18 )		All of us can build up and encourage one another ( See paragraph 18 )
All this gift de give us power to finish the preaching work. go really happy say we de do our best to " endure as we de preach "!		How pleased will be as he observes our whole - souled efforts to " keep bearing much fruit "!
And because my wife want learn more, e come ask the woman im name and where e dey stay. The woman tell am sey im name na Apun.		She gave her name, Apun, but she was cautious because even in the 1980 ' s, the activities of the were banned.
And the work na the one wey dey make us happy. E still dey make us near our brothers and sisters pass before.		That work is truly satisfying and can draw you closer to your brothers and sisters.
Around the year 1450 dem come get hope, like person wey see light for darkness. Na two things give dem hope.		Glimmers of spiritual light began to penetrate the darkness, thanks to two important factors.
Before dem make the machine, people dey copy Bible with hand and e no easy at all.		Before printing was brought to the Western world, the Bible was painstakingly copied by hand.
Bible call the Law wey God give Israel people ' Moses Law. ' ( 1 Ki.		The Bible refers to the Law given to Israel as " the Law of Moses. "
Branch office send 800 magazine give us wey we go use for preaching.		The branch office sent us 800 magazines to use in the ministry.
Brothers and sisters for Australia know sey people wey dey follow Jesus go preach about am ' go reach where far pass for this world, ' even for inside Australia where people no too many.		The brothers, however, were keenly aware that Jesus ' followers were to bear witness about him " to the most distant part of the earth, " including the remote Australian outback.
But, this one no mean sey the bad things wey dey happen no worry Noah; the things disturb am.		Even so, Noah must have been distressed by such ungodly conditions.
But e do pass that one.		But he did more.
But make we do wetin we suppose do.		Rather, we should do our part.
But no be im work be number one thing for im life. Instead, e put mind for work and e come be regular pioneer. The sister and im husband don do work for many country.		But instead of pursuing a prestigious position in medicine, she became a regular pioneer and has served in several countries with her husband.
But things no too easy that time.		There were hindrances, however.
Dem no go want agree for anything, and when dem get problem with other people dem no dey gree settle am.		They would not be open to any agreement, displaying an unwillingness to become reconciled to other people.
Dem still talk sey I go do hard work for there. The camp near one city wey dem dey call Saransk.		When neither threats nor enticements worked, I was sentenced to seven years of hard labor in a camp near the city of Saransk.
Dem talk sey na give dem Tony and Wendy.		These older ones consider the younger couple 's help to be a gift from.
Dey Pity People and Judge Well Like, Nov.		He Had Pleased God Well " ( Enoch ), No. 1
E NO get any other people for this world wey be like Witness people.		S faithful servants on earth, his, make up an organization that is indeed exceptional.
E de protect soldier make sword, spear or arrow no touch e body.		It served to protect him from the blows of weapons and the hails of arrows.
E fit be sey, like this brothers and sisters, many of us today no go ever forget the convention wey sweet us well well. Na so e dey be, especially if the convention make us come love and Jesus more more and make us want use all our power work for dem.		Likely, many of us today have similar precious memories of a convention that especially thrilled our hearts and filled us with zeal and with love for our great God and his King.
E get one meeting wey dem do for one upstair wey dey where dem dey call Troas.		Others became eyewitnesses to another resurrection.
E get one year wey Maria carry our two children come greet me. That year na special year for me.		One year Maria 's visit was very special because she brought our two young daughters with her.
E go still help us make we no dey too think bad thing. True true, you go gain am well well if you dey sorry for people and help dem. ( Eph.		Christians who lovingly seek to help others are rewarded with a good conscience, knowing that they are acting in harmony with godly principles.
E learn from that Bible verse sey make e dey think about wetin e go do wey go make happy.		Read. ) That passage reminded her that making happy should be her goal.
E no mean sey we go dey sin anyhow.		Of course, we do not simply ignore our weaknesses.
E pain us sey dem kill some of dem.		Tragically, some were killed.
E sey: " I don tell una this things so that my joy go dey with una, and una joy go full. "		Does this not indicate that we can grow in joy?
E sey people wey dey do wetin their body want dey like to cause quarrel.		People who engage in any of " the works of the flesh " fall into that category.
E still talk sey: ' Because I dey learn about for the language wey I dey speak for school, I come dey do wetin I suppose do. '		She recalls: " Learning about in my school language moved me to action. "
Even though sey Joseph suffer for people hand, e no get bad belle for dem.		Did the injustices make Joseph bitter?
Even with that one, e still pain am well well to see Mary and Martha dey cry.		Even though Jesus knew that he was going to resurrect Lazarus, he felt the painful sting of sorrow that overwhelmed Mary and Martha.
FOR the Law wey give Moses, e get some things wey person fit swear about.		OATHS had their proper place according to the Mosaic Law.
For example, dem lie give King David about Mephibosheth wey be Saul grandpikin.		King David was given faulty information about Saul 's grandson Mephibosheth.
For example, for 1931, na only 82 publishers dem get.		In 1931 there were 82 publishers.
For the starting of the sermon on the mount, Jesus teach the people make dem pray give their Father for heaven make e give dem wetin dem need to take live their life. E talk sey: ' Give us wetin we go chop today. ' ( Matt.		Earlier in his sermon, Jesus taught his audience to petition their heavenly Father for their physical needs, saying that they could pray: " Give us today our bread for this day. "
For the whole world, e pass 65 million refugee people wey don run comot from where dem dey stay because of war or because people dey suffer dem.		Worldwide, refugees who have fled their homes because of war or persecution now number over 65,000,000 - the highest ever recorded.
God give people wey lead Israel holy spirit.		Holy spirit empowered God 's representatives.
How Jesus resurrection take different from other resurrection before im own?		How did the resurrection of Jesus differ from earlier ones?
How person fit bear am, if e person die?		How can a person cope with the loss of a loved one?
I Leave Many Things So That I Go Follow the Master ( F.		Samuelson ), Mar. Leaving Things Behind to Follow the Master ( F.
I dey stay for one city wey dem dey call Belgorod now. The brothers for there dey really help me well well.		Now I live in the city of Belgorod, and the brothers here are a huge support to me.
I work for the garden, clean their windows, and do plenty other small - small things.		I did yard work, washed windows, and cared for other odd jobs.
IF PERSON ask you sey wetin be the main things wey we believe, wetin you go talk?		IF YOU were asked, ' What are the key teachings of your faith? ' what would you say?
If na so, make their papa and mama no feel sey their children no love dem again.		If so, their parents need not feel that their children are rejecting them.
Im example teach us sey na only if help and bless us we go fit do the work well.		After all, we have been invited " to walk in modesty with [ our ] God. "
Im faith make am build ark wey go save im family. E fit be sey, people wey dey around am don ask am why e dey build this kind big ark.		Without doubt, his neighbors must have asked him why he was building such a colossal structure.
Im wife fit just dey respect am only when e dey around, make quarrel no dey.		To avoid confrontation, the wife of such a man may show him a measure of respect when he is present.
Jesus talk sey: " Nobody fit serve two oga. E go hate one and love the other one, or e go hold one tight and leave the other one.		Jesus said: " No one can slave for two masters; for either he will hate the one and love the other, or he will stick to the one and despise the other.
Like that papa, ready to welcome sinners wey repent. ( Luke 15: 20 ) Any papa and mama wey get this kind children go continue to hold tight.		They trust that like the father in the parable of the prodigal son, is ever on the lookout to welcome back sinners who repent.
Make we hear from some of dem.		Let us get acquainted with some of them.
Make we see how Jesus take know wetin im Papa want make e do.		Consider how Jesus perceived what his Father wanted him to do.
Me and my wife dey always travel go Balykchy.		Mairambubu and I often traveled to Balykchy.
Na e make we really want teach people the truth about our God. We de happy say we de use the name of our God and people de call us Witness.		Because we see what Satan is trying to do to 's name and reputation, we feel more compelled to teach others the truth about our God.
Na true? If we no get holy spirit, we go fit do the work come reach this time?		But is not the fact that we can endure in the work evidence that we have God 's spirit?
Na true sey we no need religion to make us happy?		How does true religion promote happiness?
Nabal na rich man, and e get plenty sheep. Dem dey take care of im sheep around where mountain dey, for south of Judah.		Abigail was married to Nabal, a wealthy man who pastured his large flocks in the mountainous region of southern Judah.
No think sey because dem dey follow you go meeting for Kingdom Hall or preaching, dem get faith.		Never assume that they have faith simply because they attend Christian meetings and share in the field service with you.
One manager for one big company go one of the place where we dey print our book. E surprise sey dem no dey pay the people wey dey work for there.		After touring one of our printing facilities, an executive from a large company was amazed that all the work was accomplished by volunteers, with voluntary donations, and without any sales or fund drives.
Other people wey no support God as King, go come dey sey: ' E talk sey e go come.		Were to fail to fulfill his promises, the Devil would have an excuse to call God a liar who withholds good and thus rules in an unfair way.
People wey dey find gold go dey pick am small small for the different place wey e gather.		Tiny specks or flakes of gold sometimes accumulate in creeks and rivers.
Pray and think about wetin dey the box " How You Fit Make Your Life Simple. " Then make you start to do wetin go make your plan work.		Prayerfully consider the box " How to Simplify Your Life, " and begin taking the steps needed to achieve your goal.
Riana start to study with two men wey dey speak Tandroy language for one month before thief come im house.		A month before the burglary took place, Riana had started a Bible study with two Antandroy men.
SONG: 22, 75		SONGS: 22, 75
TODAY, many Witness people dey make wetin Bible talk happen because dem dey preach the good news ' to all the people, tribe and language wey dey this earth. '		THOUSANDS of 's today are taking an active part in the fulfillment of the vision to declare the good news " to every nation and tribe and tongue and people. "
That time, people like their religion, their position for community, and their tribe pass any other thing. Na e make they hate Jesus and e disciples.		The prejudice that Jesus and his disciples suffered was rooted in religious, social, and ethnic divisions.
That time, the government dey send people wey dem no like go Siberia.		The USSR included the region of Siberia, where enemies of the State were exiled.
That time I believe sey, like Felisa, dem no know sey the things wey dem dey learn no correct.		I was sure that, like Felisa, they did not realize that they were learning a lot of lies.
The best thing wey we fit do for dem na to tell dem about. We go still tell dem wetin God Kingdom go do.		The best way we can do that is by teaching them about God and about what his Kingdom will do for mankind.
The visitor dem fit be missionary, people wey dey go message for John, or people wey dey do circuit overseer work.		The guests may have been missionaries, John 's envoys, or traveling overseers.
The young sister happy well well sey give am power and sense to talk about that hard topic. You don ever think sey no get you for mind?		Realizing that had given her strength and wisdom to give a witness on that sensitive subject, the young girl felt very happy.
This man want help im student know the main Hebrew word wey dem use for Bible.		He wanted to enable students to distinguish between the root of Hebrew words in the Bible and any associated prefixes or suffixes.
Three of dem don baptize but dem think sey dem no go fit change the kind life wey dem dey live because e no go easy for dem.		All three of these baptized Christians felt that it would be nearly impossible to change because their imperfect leanings were so strong.
To encourage person no be just to tell am better word. Na im make apostle Paul tell the elders for Ephesus sey: " Una must help people wey no strong, and make una dey always remember wetin our Lord Jesus talk, when e talk sey: ' Na when we give, we dey happy pass when dem give us. ' "		Showing that just a word of encouragement does not always suffice, Paul told the elders from Ephesus: " You must assist those who are weak and must keep in mind the words of the Lord Jesus, when he himself said: ' There is more happiness in giving than there is in receiving. ' "
We go answer this question for the next topic.		The following article will address these matters.
We know sey na really save us.		We felt that had protected us.
We pioneer together and we enjoy - am.		We enjoyed pioneering together.
Wetin angel tell Daniel?		An angel gave the prophet Daniel what encouragement?
sin dey rule us?		by sin?
Wetin happen to Paul and Silas for Philippi?		What events in Philippi led to the imprisonment of Paul and Silas?
Wetin we fit learn from Peter mistake wey go help us if elder do or talk wetin pain us?		More important, what can we learn from Peter 's error that will help us if we are hurt by the words or actions of an elder?
Wetin we go do to ready ourself for wetin go happen for front?		How can we make sure that we are ready for what is coming in the near future?
When I dey camp for 1962		While living in a labor camp, 1962
When the dog reach where we dey, dem come stop. Dem shake their tail and waka comot.		When the dogs came within an arm 's length of us, they stopped, wagged their tails, and walked away.
When we follow Bible advice, we go enjoy peace more - more. - Prov.		When we apply such lessons from God 's Word, we experience greater peace in our lives. - Prov.
When we think about all the things wey dey do for us, e dey really touch our heart.		We are overwhelmed when we consider all that has done in our behalf.
Why you value the promise wey you make to before you baptize?		Why do you treasure your dedication to?
You fit invite dem make dem follow you when you dey go enjoy yourself? This things go help dem make new friends, and e go make dem enjoy the new area.		Inviting them for refreshments, a meal, or an outing will help them to make new friends and adjust to their changed circumstances.
You fit tell dem your plan. Bible talk sey: ' Plan dey fail when dem no talk am together.		Plans fail when there is no consultation, but there is accomplishment through many advisers.
Zechariah help dem remember why free dem from Babylon. Zechariah name mean " Don Remember. "		The very name Zechariah, which means " Has Remembered, " may have brought to mind a vital truth.
This one na better reason wey suppose make Gaius do good and continue to do am.		That is an excellent reason to do good and to keep on doing so.
This people know sey if dem want follow Jesus, dem need to baptize.		Clearly, those new disciples understood that baptism is a requirement for Christians.
Our earth dey produce many better things. Prophet Isaiah talk sey time dey come when everybody go enjoy am together. Nobody go pay money. ( Isa.		The prophet Isaiah pointed to the time when all humans would freely enjoy earth 's material resources.
As dem talk sey Jew people dey do, dem put signboard wey dey point where the person go follow go the city.		According to Jewish tradition, guideposts were erected to direct fugitives to the cities.
[CONTENT_REMOVED]		See paragraphs 16, 17 )
If husband dey copy Jesus example, e fit make im wife start to dey serve.		By imitating Jesus ' example, a husband may win his wife over to true worship.
Wetin go help us choose wetin good?		To make wise decisions, we should have faith in what?
Which kind freedom human being fit get, and why?		What sort of freedom can humans enjoy, and why?
Make we no dey feel sey we better pass other people for congregation.		In the congregation, why should there be no distinction based on race, nationality, or social status?
Phil. 3: 18, 19; Jude 4, 8, 12 ) And Bible still talk about one time wey one brother for Corinth ' collect im papa wife. '		Recall, too, that for a time, a brother in Corinth was " living with his father 's wife. "
But e good make we no forget sey no be just " big big things " for life fit make person sleep for things wey concern God. If we too put mind for the " normal things " for life e fit still make us comot mind for God matter.		Yet, we realize that it does not take anything extraordinary to make a person spiritually drowsy - the ordinary things of life will do that if allowed to crowd out our spiritual activities.
Jesus know sey rest good sometimes.		Jesus recognized the need to rest on occasion.
THINK BEFORE YOU TALK.		TAKE TIME TO MEDITATE.
We no go only look the main thing wey change. But we go still try understand the small small things wey make the new one different from the old one.		We seek to understand clearly not only the major adjustments but also the subtle differences between the old understanding and the new one.
Wetin we know about Timothy from wetin Bible talk?		The Bible 's description of Timothy leads us to what conclusion about his baptism?
And go really happy with us, if we ' continue to dey tell each other better word everyday. '		All of us will surely please if we " keep on encouraging one another each day. "
But, that one no mean sey God no fit bring person wey don die come life.		Of course, that did not mean that God could not resurrect a person.
After I thank one sister wey answer question, people wey sitdown for im back come dey give me sign sey the answer no correct!		After I thanked one sister for her answer, those seated behind her started gesturing to me to alert me that the answer was not correct.
After dem die, dem go come resurrect like Jesus go heaven as spirit.		Afterward, like Christ, they could be resurrected with a spirit body.
All of dem still dey serve well.		They are all still serving faithfully.
And I begin hate English people. "		And I developed animosity toward English - speaking people.
And this one dey make life hard for everybody.		Indeed, such love fosters a selfish world that is " hard to deal with. "
And wetin make us feel sey na we be the people wey really dey do the work?		Is it presumptuous on our part to think that we are the ones who are doing this work?
And woman no go fit get belle if e no release egg.		Of course, if no egg is released, fertilization cannot occur.
Another good thing wey the brothers do touch my heart, and I no fit forget - am.		Another act of kindness made a lasting impression on me.
Anybody wey dey do like this, dey support wetin Satan talk, sey anything wey person fit do for imself no bad even if other people suffer.		Anyone who allows himself to be swept along by this spirit is, in effect, accepting Satan 's argument that it is the course of wisdom to pursue one 's own interests regardless of how doing so may affect others.
Anybody wey no agree with wetin dem dey teach for church go die. And many of this things wey dem dey teach na the lie lie of Aristotle and Plato wey live before Jesus time.		Men and women were condemned for heresy because they rejected teachings of the church, some of which were based on the pagan philosophies of Aristotle and Plato - men who lived before Jesus Christ was born.
Apart from that one, the IUD wey get copper dey fit kill the sperm wey enter inside woman body. Na the copper wey dey this IUD dey kill the sperm.		In addition to that, with copper - releasing IUDs, the copper appears to be toxic to sperm, acting as a spermicide.
Apart from to tell person better word wey go help am, which other thing elders fit do?		In addition to sharing words of encouragement, how can the elders build others up?
Apostle John tell us sey this world, and the things wey people like, no go dey again.		The apostle John reminds us that this world is passing away and so is its desire.
Apostle Peter advice brothers for im time sey: " Dey do good to unaself and no complain. " ( 1 Pet.		The apostle Peter urged Christians in the first century: " Be hospitable to one another. "
Araceli: Because dem no treat me well at all when I dey the convent, I really vex and I no come like my church.		Araceli: Because I was treated so badly at the convent, I felt angry and unhappy with my religion.
Because the Bible Student dem no gree join army when war dey, the government for Germany come dey monitor dem.		Because of their conduct during the war, the Bible Students came under official scrutiny.
Bible still talk sey this kind thing go happen because the whole earth go know. ( Isa.		Notice that this tranquil state of affairs will prevail " because the earth will certainly be filled with the knowledge of. "
Bible talk sey e " preach about wetin good. " Noah no fear to tell people about.		He also became a bold " preacher of righteousness, " publicly confessing his faith in.
Bible talk sey for Noah time, ' some of the son wey the true God get come dey eye the fine girls wey people for this world born.		In Noah 's day, " the sons of the true God began to notice that the daughters of men were beautiful, " says the Bible.
But, dem no know how the thing wey want happen, serious reach.		However, they did not recognize the seriousness of what was coming.
But I come talk am for my mind sey: " If feel sey I fit do am, I go try am. "		But I thought, ' If thinks I can do it, I will try. '
But the woman ' come dey sick and e come die. ' E pain people for congregation well well.		Sadly, however, " she fell sick and died, " bringing grief to the congregation.
But what of you?		But what about you personally?
Close your ear! No listen to Satan lie. ( Prov.		Shut your ears, then, to Satan 's propaganda.
Dem be men and women, but e be like sey children even dey among dem. Maybe na this people Jesus tell sey: " Make una go make people my disciple for the whole world.		It may have been on that occasion that he said: " Go, therefore, and make disciples of people of all the nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the holy spirit, teaching them to observe all the things I have commanded you. "
Dem carry me go one convent for Madrid and dem carry Lauri go another convent wey dey Valencia.		So they sent me to a convent in Madrid and Lauri to a convent in Valencia.
Dem do the convention for Alma - Ata ( Almaty ) for Kazakhstan. Na 1993 dem do the first convention for Kyrgyzstan.		And in 1993 the brothers in Kyrgyzstan hosted a convention at Spartak Stadium in Bishkek for the first time.
E come dey pray pass before.		He especially started praying regularly.
E don tey wey I see am dey happy like that and e even smile. '		For the first time in years, he seemed happy. He even smiled. "
E know sey im disciples go do as e do.		He knew that his good example would help his disciples.
E no easy to arrange this kind thing for people. But our bele dey sweet us to see how e dey touch people as dem dey learn about how organization be for everywhere for the world.		It was not easy arranging these showings, yet it was satisfying to see the fine response of the people as they got acquainted with the international aspect of 's organization.
E no get any other meeting wey be like Memorial.		The Memorial, like no other meeting of God 's people, provides undeniable evidence of the unity of 's.
E sey: " We dey try to put mind for things wey concern God. " Another brother for Philippines talk sey: " Because I dey allow God spirit direct me, I don get peace of mind.		And a brother in the Philippines notes, " Being a spiritual person has allowed me to have peace of mind, and it has helped me improve in my dealings with brothers from different backgrounds. "
E tell the people say: " Pay back Caesar things to Caesar, and God things to God. "		Caesar 's things to Caesar, but God 's things to God, " he said.
Elders fit arrange am with other publishers to make sure sey brothers and sisters wey don old dey stay for clean house and dey see better food chop.		Elders can work with others in making sure that our dear older ones have good food and that their homes are maintained.
Emil Schrer wey sabi this matter well well talk sey: " Person for the Roman government fit just come any time to handle any matter wey dey ground. Na wetin dem dey do when dem think sey person one cause wahala for government. "		Yet, " its most serious restriction, " notes scholar Emil Schrer, " was that the Roman authorities could at any time take the initiative themselves and proceed independently, as in fact they did when they suspected a political offence. "
Filip and Ida talk wetin dem do to fit help people wey dem dey study Bible with.		Filip and Ida tell us what they did to help Bible students to progress.
For example, Eli wey be High Priest get two pikin wey no dey follow law.		For example, High Priest Eli had two sons who did not uphold 's laws.
For example, one Jew person wey im name na Flavius Josephus, write about wetin some Jew people believe. E talk sey: ' Dem no dey gree swear. Dem believe sey to swear worse pass to lie. Dem still believe sey person wey dey swear make people believe am, na big liar. '		For example, the Jewish historian Flavius Josephus said of a Jewish sect: " Swearing they avoid, regarding it as worse than perjury, for they say that one who is not believed without an appeal to God stands condemned already. "
For other people mind, dem think sey dem get sense if dem talk sey: " I fit know wetin good even if I no believe sey God dey. "		Others may feel worldly - wise when they say, " I can have high principles without believing in God. "
For person wey want be overseer for congregation, this kind character need to show for the person body.		Such qualities are vital for those taking the lead in true worship.
God allow government wey dey this world mek dem still dey rule because dem fit help mek peace dey, sometimes.		God allows human governments to exist because they can maintain some peace and order.
I want make e no fear to tell me wetin dey im mind, even wetin dey worry am. '		I wanted him to feel free to talk to me about anything, even about his pain. "
I want make una dey pity people. " Na people wey dey sin I come call, no be people wey dey do good. ' ( Matt.		For I came to call, not righteous people, but sinners. "
If we dey think about problem wey never happen, e fit make some of us dey worry.		Unwarranted anxiety often results if a Christian agonizes over possible future problems.
If you see sey your hand don dey weak to do any of the things wey we talk about for this paragraph, pray make help you.		If you sense that your hands have dropped down in any of these areas, ask for God 's help.
Jesus warn us sey: ' Make una ready because na the time wey una no think sey e go be, na im Son of man dey come. '		Jesus warned us: " Keep ready, because at an hour that you do not think likely, the Son of man is coming. "
Make people know sey we dey serve and we no like trouble. This one fit make thief no put eye for our body. - 1 John 2: 16; Prov.		If we shun " the showy display of [ our ] means of life " and are known by our neighbors as peace - loving of, we may avoid being targeted by violent criminals. - 1 John 2: 16; Prov.
Make we come see how Bible take dey help all of us to fit dey do well for God work.		Let us consider how God 's Word encourages all to make progress in true worship.
Make we go back to Hebrews 12: 16 wey talk sey: " And make sure sey nobody dey among una wey dey put hand for sex wey no clean for God eye, or anybody wey no value holy things, like Esau, wey sell im right as firstborn because of one plate of food. "		Now let us return to Hebrews 12: 16, which reads: " Watch that among you there is no one who is sexually immoral nor anyone who does not appreciate sacred things, like Esau, who gave up his rights as firstborn in exchange for one meal. "
Make we talk about Moses, the person wey God choose to lead Israel people.		Consider Moses, who was commissioned to be the leader of the Israelites.
Na im make e no tey before e come be ministerial servant because e don really change.		Over the course of a few years, Kevin made significant improvement.
Na one of the place wey I travel go, I come jam one sister wey be missionary for Thailand.		On one of these trips, I got acquainted with Janet Dumond, a missionary in Thailand.
Na that one go help you fit do wetin you promise for your wedding day and you go happy as you dey do am.		Doing so will help you to live up to your marriage vow - happily!
Na that time my papa take threaten me sey, if I go preaching, make I no come back.		That is when my father made the threat that I related at the outset.
Na that time you go see sey get you for mind.		You will soon see how " cares for you. "
ONE day help Moses know who e be. E tell Moses im name and different different character wey e get.		ON ONE occasion, God revealed himself to Moses by declaring His own name and qualities.
Our meeting dey help us.		Meetings encourage us.
Papa and mama wey get better sense go think how dem go take correct their pikin and wetin go come out of am.		Parents developing practical wisdom will think about the way they discipline their children and the effect this will have on the children in the future.
Paul and Silas come start to ' dey pray and dem come dey sing dey praise God. '		Both he and Silas started " praying and praising God with song. "
Person wey dey carve something, dey first sitdown think about wetin e want carve before e carve am.		A good sculptor plans ahead for what he is trying to shape.
Remember sey God tell Abraham make e listen to im wife. ( Gen.		Recall that God urged Abraham to listen to what his wife had to say.
Romans 12: 2 talk sey: ' Make una stop to do things like the people wey dey this world, but make una dey change how una dey think and the kind person wey una be so that una go fit sabi the better thing wey God want make una do, wey e like and wey complete. '		We need to keep exerting ourselves and following God 's instructions, for Romans 12: 2 states: " Stop being molded by this system of things, but be transformed by making your mind over, so that you may prove to yourselves the good and acceptable and perfect will of God. "
So e call the Ambassador. When the man come see me, e greet me with their language.		She telephoned the official, who came out to meet me and greeted me in the local language.
So wetin help am?		What was Anna still doing at 84 years of age?
Some papa and mama no dey correct their pikin because dem no want make the pikin vex.		Some parents may feel bad about possibly hurting their child 's feelings, so they avoid giving correction.
Still check the different Bible verse wey dey inside. Think about how each line take match with the Bible verse wey dem write.		Try to understand the connection between the statements in the outline and the cited scriptures.
That time, ' Peter and the Eleven apostles stand up ' come dey preach to plenty people. People wey be Jew and people wey no be Jew dey among dem.		On that occasion, " Peter stood up with the Eleven " and shared lifesaving truths with a large crowd of Jews and proselytes.
That time, me and my mama de live for Karachi. This city na the capital of the province wey we dey.		My mother and I were then living in Karachi, the provincial capital.
The bad thing be sey, this wicked world dey bring many problem wey fit worry person for mind, come make life tire am.		Sadly, life in Satan 's wicked world creates a tremendous amount of pressure, which can cause anxiety and thus make a person feel weighed down.
The brothers for Turkey really want preach to many people, as dem fit.		The brothers in Turkey really want to share the truth with as many people as possible.
The missionary brothers for on top the boat ( Sibia ) ( from left go right ): Ron Parkin, Dick Ryde, Gust Maki, and Stanley Carter		The crew of missionaries aboard the Sibia ( left to right ): Ron Parkin, Dick Ryde, Gust Maki, and Stanley Carter
The person still dey show sey e really get people for mind, and the love wey e get for dem no dey fail.		Love also involves a feeling of deep affection for others and a sincere concern for them, as well as a warm attachment to them.
The phonograph big and e take style heavy.		These were rather bulky and weighed about ten pounds ( 4.5 kg ).
The sister no talk, e just sit - down.		The sister simply took her seat.
The sister talk sey: " I know sey go take care of me! "		She says: " I know for sure that will take care of me! "
The truth be sey, e no easy to always remember to show sey na we dey support as King.		Granted, keeping our eyes on the vindication of 's sovereignty can be challenging.
The way dem take teach us for the school really make sense.		The instructors used effective teaching methods.
Things like this really make me value the way dey support people wey put im work as the number one thing for their life.		Such experiences strengthened my appreciation for 's unfailing support of those who pursue Kingdom interests.
Think am: na the Person wey high pass for heaven and earth.		Think of it: We know the Universal Sovereign.
This kind thing no too dey happen for congregation. But the number of people for congregation wey their marriage dey get problem, dey go up and this one no be better thing.		This trend is not as common in the Christian congregation, but increasing marital problems among God 's people are a cause for concern.
This one go help the pikin like the truth wey dey Bible.		When parents do this, their children not only hear the truth but also experience it.
This scribe and Pharisee people dey carry shoulder and dey only think about theirself. Dem no see people life as anything.		Proud and selfish, the scribes and Pharisees cared little for the life and welfare of their fellow humans.
Today, we happy sey our brothers and sisters ready to die for each other. Dem no just dey do am because na wetin dem suppose do.		It is heartwarming to see how brothers and sisters today are united by a bond that goes beyond any role or assignment in the congregation.
Use Bible well well		Make liberal use of the Scriptures
We dey use am teach people wetin Bible talk. Na the money wey people take their mind give, we take dey support this work.		It is provided as part of a worldwide Bible educational work supported by voluntary donations.
We go still talk about things wey go help us fit dey control ourself.		And we can review practical suggestions that can help us to strengthen our self - control.
We need to dey help each other as life dey hard more more.		When hard times come, will we not depend on one another?
We no know who write Psalm 147. E fit be sey the person dey when free Israel people from Babylon.		We do not know who wrote this psalm, but the psalmist apparently lived about the time when restored the Israelites to Jerusalem from Babylonian exile.
We thank well well sey we don comot for fake religion hand!		How exhilarating it is to have been released from captivity to Babylon the Great!
Wetin Esau do no good at all. Esau live for the time wey head of family fit dey do priest work for im family.		He failed to " appreciate sacred things, " and he literally gave in to what was profane.
Wetin fit help person choose whether e go marry or e go dey like that?		What can help a Christian to decide whether to get married?
Wetin go help us make we no dey carry shoulder?		the way we view ourselves?
Wetin the Bible Students talk sey dem no go do with fake religion?		What position did the early Bible Students take regarding false religion as they understood it?
Wetin we do na wetin we suppose do. "		What we have done is what we ought to have done. ' "
Wetin we fit do to know if we still dey side?		In the days before the Memorial, how can we ' test whether we are in the faith '?
With Paul, Stephany, Kimberly and Brian for the Bethel wey dey Malawi, for year 2002		With Paul, Stephany, Kimberly, and Brian at the Malawi branch office, in the year 2002
Yes! '		I 'll say! "
You fit don see sey dem dey put body for preaching.		Perhaps you have noticed their zeal in the ministry, their outstanding hospitality, their compassion, or other fine qualities.
You fit still see the address for www.jw.org.		The address can be found on www.jw.org.
You go gree give am your hand make e hold? No forget wetin e promise you: ' No fear.		Will you respond by holding out your hand to the One who promises you: " Do not be afraid.
for preaching?		in the ministry?
Even Solomon with all im fine fine cloth wey e dey wear, no fine reach any of dem '!		Why, " not even Solomon in all his glory was arrayed as one of these "!
Na so e still be if you dey among people wey dey use give correction.		Likewise, those divinely authorized to give discipline must themselves continue to submit willingly to 's guidance.
The branch committee for there don talk sey na only 200 pioneer their territory need. And this pioneers no dey preach with congregation as e be today, but dem dey go preach for far far village.		In addition, the branch had decided that the territory could support only about 200 pioneers, who worked in isolated territories rather than with congregations.
Wetin Asa do?		How did Asa react to this crisis?
Na true say this verse concern people wey they still de learn the truth.		We might initially associate those texts with a person who is learning the truth.
We suppose dey praise and talk better things about our brothers and sisters wey still dey serve, even if dem dey face wahala.		Third, fellow Christians who serve loyally despite opposition need to be acknowledged and warmly commended for their faithful course.
Jesus still study Bible. This one help am near more more.		Jesus also drew close to by studying the Scriptures.
Psalm 40: 8 tell us sey e dey sweet Jesus to do wetin God want.		Doing what God asked him to do made Jesus happy. Psalm 40: 8 expresses his feelings: " To do your will, O my God, is my delight. "
We know sey dey use the good news show im favor.		Undeniably, the good news highlights 's undeserved kindness.
Because of wetin Jesus talk for Matthew 5: 14 - 16, wetin we go talk about?		In view of Jesus ' words recorded at Matthew 5: 14 - 16, what will we consider?
For the example wey Jesus give, wetin the grapes mean, and why the grapes na better example?		What do the grapes in Jesus ' illustration represent, and why is it a fitting comparison?
How refugee go take show sey dem like wetin brothers dey do for dem?		How can refugees show gratitude?
When King David dey write Psalm 13, e reach four times wey e ask the same question.		That was the question raised by the faithful prophets Isaiah and Habakkuk.
If we no do wetin we promise, e no go happy with us.		You surely realize that your vows should not be treated lightly.
After, dem come still arrest Corinna, carry am go Siberia. Siberia far well well from where Corinna dey stay.		Later, Corinna too was taken thousands of miles away from home to Siberia.
After thirty years, apostle John write the book of John and three other book for Bible.		Over three decades later, the apostle John wrote his Gospel and three letters.
And dem go run go meet am to protect dem. " Patience na another character wey God spirit dey help us get.		The quality of patience will be considered in a future article in this series on " the fruitage of the spirit. "
Another thing be sey, dem don be enemy to God Kingdom wey start to rule for 1914.		Also, they have become enemies of God 's Kingdom, which began ruling in 1914.
Apostle John still dey among the people wey dey direct Christians for im time.		The apostle John was also a pillar in the early Christian congregation.
Apostle Peter write sey: ' As the gift take reach una hand one by one, make una use am dey help unaself because una be better servant wey don get God favor wey dey show for different different way. ' ( 1 Pet.		The apostle Peter wrote: " To the extent that each one has received a gift, use it in ministering to one another as fine stewards of God 's undeserved kindness that is expressed in various ways. "
As e dey learn to get the " new character, " and dey copy Jesus example, e go dey help am dey mature as Christian.		Spiritually speaking, however, a new disciple starts off being immature.
Before we baptize, we promise for prayer sey we go use our life serve am.		The most important vow that a Christian can make is the one with which he dedicates his life to.
Bible sey, ' Hannah pray to, and the prayer tey. '		Did she expect to grant her request?
But, dem never fit make life better for anybody. - Ps.		They, however, offer no sure hope for a better future. - Ps.
But, what if we face something for life and no law dey for Bible about - am?		Yet, there are other activities or aspects of life about which the Scriptures provide no specific command.
But if we do this one, we fit enter big trouble.		But doing that can be dangerous.
But person wey allow God spirit dey direct am know how dey feel. E know sey no like am if person dey do wetin im body want. ( 1 Cor.		On the other hand, the spiritual person understands God 's viewpoint as well as the erroneous course of the physical man.
But the more I dey sleep with dem, the more I dey see sey dem no love me.		But the more I had sexual relations, the more insecure I felt. "
But this time, I don take my eye see am. "		But this time, I experienced it firsthand.
But what of the one wey be sey na people wey no be Witness be the main people wey we write am for?		But what about our magazines that are principally for the public?
Dem fit choose whether dem go support God or dem no go support am.		Free will enables people to make many appropriate choices daily.
Dem get faith and dem value wetin dem learn from Bible. Na this one make dem ready to give their life and baptize.		Those who have faith and genuine appreciation for Bible truth are eager to make a personal dedication and get baptized.
Dem put Paul and Silas inside prison for Philippi. The prison dark no be small.		Two missionaries, Paul and Silas, are in prison - the innermost part of the prison - in the city of Philippi.
E go make dem believe sey nothing dey happen.		He will mislead them into thinking that all is well on the world scene.
E good make we dey copy the better example of this kind people wey dey follow Jesus. - 1 Cor.		Are we not moved to imitate such faithful ones as they follow the Christ? - 1 Cor.
E make sense to believe sey nobody make everything?		Is the claim of unbelievers that there is no Creator based on logical reasoning?
E no dey force dem to change. E dey give dem im law wey go make their life better, but na dem go choose whether dem go do am.		He does not force them to make changes, but he reveals his righteous standards so that they can clean up their lives or make adjustments voluntarily.
E see sey no dey sleep.		He saw 's hand in matters.
For Australia, one sister wey e de pioneer now talk say: " As I de think about how they suffer Aboriginal people in those days and for our time, I begin hate white people more - more.		My hatred for white people grew as I focused on the injustice that was inflicted on the Aboriginal people - past and present, " explains a sister who is now a pioneer in Australia.
For one week, I go watch another circuit overseer as e de visit one congregation.		I spent a week observing a circuit overseer as he visited one congregation.
For where! E no go dey again.		He will end poverty.
Gust Maki, one of the people wey dem train for Gilead School, sabi how to drive boat well well.		One of our number, Gust Maki, was an experienced sea captain.
How our conscience fit help us make we be mature Christian?		How is our progress toward maturity related to our conscience?
If human being fit use lie deceive us, what of Devil?		Now if mere men can fool us with their propaganda, what might Satan be able to do?
dey always do the correct thing; e no fit lie.		Well, himself is honest; he " cannot lie. "
don give us Bible wey explain all this things.		has provided us with his Word, the Bible.
fit help us dey do well for the work wey we dey do for am now.		With 's blessing, we can make spiritual progress in whatever role we are currently serving.
tell Israel people for the Law wey e give dem, wetin dem go do to dey clean when some kind things make dem dirty.		The Mosaic Law included a number of commands on ceremonial purity regarding such matters as bodily discharges, leprosy, and dealing with human and animal corpses.
Just as firewood dey make fire burn well, na so God spirit dey make us get more joy.		You must feed the fire to intensify the heat.
Make we dey pray for our brothers and sisters for the whole world especially for the people wey dey use direct us.		And we should pray for our worldwide brotherhood, especially " those who are taking the lead among [ us ]. "
Make we trust. Make we no feel sey we fit handle things by ourself.		Rather than rely on ourselves, we must rely on.
Make you dey enjoy the things wey make. Dey enjoy funny things, dey do exercise, and dey sleep well. - w16.12, pp.		Set appropriate priorities, have realistic expectations, daily make room for some quiet time, enjoy God 's creation, keep a sense of humor, and get regular exercise and enough sleep. - w16.12, pp.
Man wey carry wetin person take dey write and six men wey carry wetin dem take dey scatter things ( Eze 9: 2 ), June		Heeding Warnings, No. 2 " I Am Willing to Go " ( Rebekah ), No. 3 Lessons From Birds, No. 6
My papa come really do wetin e talk, e leave my mama.		Making good on his threat, my father left.
Na give us everything wey we get.		Everything we have is from.
Na Satan be the number one enemy wey dey insult.		is, in effect, being taunted by his archenemy, the Devil.
Na all my mind I use and I no ever leave you. I don do wetin good for your eye. ' - 2 KI.		O, remember, please, how I have walked before you faithfully and with a complete heart. " - 2 KI.
Na every day we dey make mistake.		We make mistakes every day.
Na one brother wey im name be Chris, first tell Gavin sey e want study Bible with am. Chris no force am study.		A brother named Chris, who first offered Gavin a Bible study, did not try to pressure him to accept it.
Noah fit no understand everything wey Genesis 3: 15 talk sey go happen.		While Noah may not have grasped the details of the prophecy recorded at Genesis 3: 15, he no doubt saw in it the hope of deliverance.
One better work wey don give papa and mama na for dem to dey teach their children about am. ( Eph. 6: 4; Ps.		Bringing up a child in " the discipline and admonition of " is one of the greatest privileges a Christian parent can have.
One example of that kind case na the one wey happen for the time of Claudius Lysias wey be commander of the army. Na this commander arrest Paul wey be Roman. - Acts 23: 26 - 30.		One example of such a case occurred under the oversight of military commander Claudius Lysias, who took into custody the apostle Paul, a Roman citizen. - Acts 23: 26 - 30.
One girl wey dey 18 years talk sey: " E no go pain pikin sey im na Witness just because dem no give am birthday cake for school.		One teenage girl put it this way: " A child usually won 't resent being one of 's just because of not having a piece of birthday cake at school.
One teacher come talk sey, ' If all the children be like una own, to teach go sweet well well. '		One teacher said, " If all children were like yours, teaching would be like paradise. "
Or if person wey you no know tell you sey make you follow am play game for internet, wetin you suppose do?		Or what should you do if invited to play online games with strangers?
People know me as person wey dey do everything to make sure sey peace and one mind dey among us? '		Am I known for going out of my way to promote peace and unity? '
Person wey know where e suppose do reach go know the work wey God give am for im organization.		Modesty really starts with acknowledging our place in God 's arrangement.
Peter no just dey enjoy to catch fish. But na wetin e take dey feed im family.		To Peter, fishing was more than a mere hobby - it was his livelihood.
Pioneers dey always stay for sister Ma Rutland house wey dey Dublin ( dem dey call am " Ma " because e be like mama to dem ).		One place where pioneers could always stay in Dublin was at the home of Ma Rutland, a longtime faithful sister.
Serious problem fit dey the marriage.		Suppose that it even seems disappointing.
Since we stay near Aspen wey dey Colorado, all of us learn how to ski ( one game wey dem dey do on top snow ), make we fit dey do am together sometimes.		Since we lived near Aspen, Colorado, we all took up skiing so that we could occasionally ski together.
So, make una advertise, advertise, advertise. '		Therefore, advertise, advertise, advertise. "
So, make we no try to dey think how two of dem take be the same.		For one thing, the length of captivity is different.
So e come do the sacrifice wey Samuel suppose do.		So he offered up a sacrifice to God, which he was not authorized to do.
Sometimes, I dey force myself to talk to brothers and sisters for my new congregation.		Sometimes I have to force myself to talk to the brothers and sisters in my new congregation.
Sometimes, new person for congregation fit tell us make we help their children sabi Bible.		One area that merits attention is the comfort and help we offer to families.
The third thing wey we fit learn from Shebna story na how take treat am. This na better example for people like, elders, and papa and mama wey don give the right to correct people.		Third, 's treatment of Shebna provides a valuable lesson for those who are authorized to administer discipline, such as parents and Christian overseers.
The truth be sey, e fit no easy for you to control your temper, especially if something like wetin happen to Toi happen to you.		Undeniably, it may not be easy to maintain composure in situations such as the one described above.
The work make me strong.		Those trips to the docks and the post office helped to strengthen me physically.
This assignment don teach me plenty things. The number one thing wey I learn be say na Jesus be the head of the Christian congregation, no be any man.		I have learned many things in this assignment, but the foremost lesson has been how obvious it is that Jesus Christ - not any man - is the head of the Christian congregation.
This kind people dey only put mind for wetin dem go get. And na wetin dem want be the number one thing for their life.		They are people who are eager for what they can get, people who place their own wishes at the center of their life.
Today, e pass 240 million people wey no dey stay for where dem born dem.		Today, more than 240,000,000 people live outside the land of their birth.
True true, Witness people dey wear cloth wey show ' sey dem dey respect theirself, dem no dey overdo and dem get sense, like [ people ] wey dey fear God. ' ( 1 Tim. 2: 9, 10, ftn. )		Indeed, 's are often commended for adorning " themselves in respectable dress, with modesty and good judgment. in the way that is proper for [ those ] professing devotion to God. "
Visitors wey go stay for some time: For Bible time, people dey give some of their visitor place to stay. ( Job 31: 32; Philem.		Long - term guests: In ancient times, hospitality often included providing lodging for trustworthy visitors.
We dey pity for people when we see dem dey suffer because of old age or sickness.		When we see others experiencing the effects of Adamic sin, we are rightly moved to show compassion.
We dey see love for everything wey e make because of how e take arrange dem.		As is evident in creation, lovingly set boundaries.
We don learn for this topic say, if we no tire to preach, e go show say ( 1 ) we de honor and make e name holy, ( 2 ) we love and Jesus, ( 3 ) we de warn people, and ( 4 ) we love our neighbor.		As considered in this article, we keep sharing in the preaching work to glorify and sanctify his name, to show our love for and for Jesus, to give ample warning, and to show love for neighbor.
We like the brothers wey dem marry and we support dem.		We wholeheartedly approved of each one 's fine choice of a marriage mate.
Wetin e gain?		The result?
Wetin happen to Adam children?		What happened to Adam 's children?
Wetin the government do when the Bible Students no gree kill people for the war?		How did the secular authorities react to the Bible Students ' Scriptural stand on armed conflict?
Wetin we fit do so that the trap of property no go catch us? And how we fit get simple life so that we fit dey do more for?		How can we avoid the snare of materialism and simplify our life so that we can pursue more important spiritual interests?
Wetin we go learn go help us see why e good to carry body down and why we suppose dey forgive. When we get this two character, we go fit copy how take dey judge matter.		A review of these accounts will highlight how humility and a willingness to forgive are related to 's view of justice.
Wetin we suppose do when e correct us?		How should we respond to his discipline?
When Christian stand for front of king, governor and other people for government because of their faith, e dey give dem chance to preach to this kind people wey e no easy to preach to.		When Christians defend their faith before kings, governors, or other officials, they can give a witness to people whom it might otherwise have been difficult to reach with the Christian message.
When e reach wetin we go do about other people mistake, the best thing na to copy the way our Papa take dey forgive us if we make mistake. - Read Psalm 103: 12 - 14.		Yes, when it comes to handling the faults of others, the Christian course is to imitate our merciful Father 's dealings with us when we make mistakes. - Read Psalm 103: 12 - 14.
When e write letter to the brothers for Corinth, e tell dem sey: ' As for me, I happy to use everything wey I get to help una. I even ready to add myself join. ' ( 2 Cor.		Writing to his Christian brothers in Corinth, Paul said: " For my part, I will most gladly spend and be completely spent for you. "
When heavy breeze blow and the water begin move up and down, e go make the ship go another direction.		The winds and currents of the ocean can easily throw a ship off course.
Your answer to this question go help you see how you know reach.		Your answers may help you to see how well you know.
and the brochure Which People dey Do Wetin Want Today?		and the brochure Who Are Doing 's Will Today?
wey dey October 15, 2011 Watchtower, pp. 9 - 12, pars. 6 - 15 ( for English ).		in The Watchtower of October 15, 2011, pp. 9 - 12, pars. 6 - 15.
The problem wey we dey face don happen to ' another person before. '		First, the trials we face are " common to men. "
give us hope sey we go get life wey no go end for front. ( Rom.		Because of God 's mercy, we have a living hope that a new world will soon be here.
That time wey David dey wait, King Saul come dey pursue am to kill am.		During part of this time, unfaithful King Saul pursued David, seeking to kill him.
You fit even use one of the story wey dey any of our book help am.		You could drive these points home by selecting an experience from our publications.
Because e train dem well, dem come fit preach the good news for everywhere for their time. - Col.		He trained them thoroughly, and they spread the good news throughout the then - known world. - Col.
Na true sey give holy spirit to all the Christian wey dey go heaven.		First, holy spirit empowered the governing body.
E still know the kind person wey we be and wetin dey our mind.		Since God knows our traits and what is in our heart, he surely was aware of what sort of imperfect tendencies would be particularly troublesome for us.
So e no good make we dey watch film or dey look picture wey dey show naked people.		Therefore, a Christian will avoid looking at pornography or listening to music with immoral lyrics.
Which kind person Sakura be before, and wetin help am change?		What kind of life did Sakura live, and what gave her the strength to leave it behind?
Which promise we no want forget?		What promise do we want to remember?
dey camp?		are living in a camp?
If you show people love like God, you go happy.		You will be happy when you imitate our loving God.
If Adam and Eve no born pikin before dem die, wetin God get for mind about their children no go happen.		Had Adam and Eve died childless, God 's purpose to fill the earth with their offspring would have come to nothing.
Na this kind love go move us so that everything wey we de do, go make glad.		Our love for will, in turn, ignite our desire to please him in all that we do.
Mark 4: 19 ) True true, if we no put eye down, problem for this world fit make us start to comot mind for God work.		Indeed, if we are not careful, the everyday concerns of life could entice our heart and cause us to slow down spiritually.
Story About People Life - Even Though I Be Deaf, I No Stop to Preach		Life Story - Being Deaf Has Not Held Me Back From Teaching Others
Train Your Conscience With Laws and Wetin Fit Guide You for Bible		Let God 's Laws and Principles Train Your Conscience
Paul dey Rome when e write wetin dey that Bible verse.		Paul was writing from Rome.
Which better resurrection we dey wait for?		What " better resurrection " is yet ahead?
Cor. 2: 5 - 8 ) You no dey happy sey Bible don help many brothers and sisters to fit change their life?		Do we not find it encouraging to consider the range of problems that our fellow believers have faced and that they have overcome by means of God 's Word?
How person fit show sey im love ' no be for mouth '?		What is " love free from hypocrisy "?
Acts chapter 24 tell us wetin happen when dem carry Paul go meet Felix wey be the Roman governor for Judea. Felix don already know about Christian and wetin dem believe.		Acts chapter 24 describes Paul 's trial before Felix, the Roman governor of Judea, who had already heard something about what Christians believed.
After many years, call Israel people im witness.		Centuries later, when identifying the Israelites as his, told them: " I am the same One.
After the burial, Ummi wey be Peter sister talk sey: ' E don reach two years now wey Peter try reach me.		After the funeral, Peter 's sister Ummi explained: " About two years ago, Peter contacted me.
And if our faith no strong, we fit start to think like dem. Jesus talk sey our time go be like Noah time.		It may even move the spiritually weak to ignore the evidence of the closeness of God 's great day.
And if something happen, this kind person dey quick blame other people.		They care little about others.
And plenty other people de vex more - more.		And many others become embittered.
And we dey show sey our hand ' clean ', if we no join politics even if the condition hard for us.		And we remain " innocent " when we stay neutral in those difficult situations.
As Pavel Sivulsky take talk am		As told by Pavel Sivulsky
Because Naboth no gree sell the farm, King Ahab and im wife come do wetin bad.		Sadly, Naboth 's refusal triggered a series of reprehensible acts on the part of both King Ahab and his wife.
Because dem no fit speak the language, dem no really understand wetin dey God Word. This one come make dem dey do like people wey no dey serve. - Neh.		These children were actually losing their identity as God 's servants because they could not fully understand the meaning of God 's Word. - Neh.
Because of the sin wey dey our body, all of us dey make mistake.		Being imperfect, all of us make mistakes.
Better people wey go take care of things go dey there.		There will be good men to care for matters.
Bible talk sey: ' Many times, all of us dey make mistake. '		We all stumble many times.
But e get some wey be sey, as Jesus talk, na congregation go settle am.		However, Jesus noted that some situations might require congregation involvement.
But e still get other things for life wey fit make person fear or worry.		Perhaps you have not experienced that exact situation, but other anxieties in life may well cause you to be apprehensive.
But even today, Christian fit still praise when dem dey talk about the good news.		Yet, even today 's name can be glorified when Christians make a defense of their faith.
But now God spirit and im Word don help dem change.		But they had changed with the help of the Scriptures and of God 's holy spirit.
But people for Rome kill Judas.		The Romans had Judas executed.
Cyrus come take over Babylon. And e come talk sey: ' don tell me to build house for am for Jerusalem.		He conquered Babylon and proclaimed: ". has commissioned me to build him a house in Jerusalem.
Dem call the prayer Shema, and dem dey pray am for morning and evening.		They say it daily, morning and evening.
Dem dey like do this one when the hospital don give dem the treatment finish so that e no go be like sey dem dey bribe the hospital people or sey dem want make the hospital people treat dem before other people.		They feel free to do this after the treatment has been received, rather than before, so that there can be no suggestion that the gift is intended as a bribe or a request for preferential treatment.
Dem dey look you to see wetin you go do because dem talk sey you go stop to serve God because of the problem wey you get.		They are watching to see what you will do and claiming that you will give up.
Diane wey come from Canada and wey dey 62 years now, talk sey: ' E first hard me to leave my people go far place. '		At first, I found it difficult to be so far away from my family, " says Diane, from Canada.
E do this one for one of the story wey e talk.		The master honored each of the faithful slaves with the words: " Well done, good and faithful slave!
E go tey for prison?		How long would he be stuck in prison?
E good make we know things about our enemy, but make we no fear the enemy.		We need to know our enemy, but we do not need to be terrified by him.
E no fear Jericho King, im soldiers or any other person.		She did not let fear of others, including the king of Jericho and his men, paralyze her.
E talk say: " I come see say e good to follow the advice wey de give.		Eventually, " he says, " I saw the benefits of living by 's standards.
For May 20, 2015, my husband wey I don stay with for 66 years, come die.		On May 20, 2015, my companion of 66 years passed away in death.
For example, e conscience fit allow make e drink. But e still need to think about other people their conscience.		While he may be at peace with his own conscience, the Christian must also consider the conscience of others.
For example, we learn how to use things like cooker, and washing machine. We still learn how to use fork and knife chop.		For example, we had to learn to use appliances and utensils that were unfamiliar to us.
For the second letter wey e write after some months, e clear sey the brothers don dey try, because the elders follow wetin e talk.		Second Corinthians, written some months later, shows that progress was made because the elders had applied the apostle 's direction.
How husband go take show sey e love im wife?		How does a Christian man express his love for his wife?
How we fit add more things from Bible join wetin we know before, and wetin we go gain?		How do we fill our treasure store with revealed truths, and what are the benefits of doing so?
How we go take do this one for this wicked world? - 1 Cor.		In this environment, how can we " be young children as to badness " yet " full - grown in [ our ] understanding "? - 1 Cor.
How you think sey im mama go correct am?		How will his mother discipline him?
I really happy when I learn for Bible say, na only God fit make things for this world go the right way.		I was so happy to learn from the Bible that only God can bring true justice to the earth.
I really thank, I don even start to dey study Bible with my grand mama wey dey disturb me before. "		Thanks to, I even started a Bible study with my formerly opposed grandmother. "
If check our mind, e go see sey we dey use all our mind serve am?		As examines us, does he conclude that we are serving him with a complete heart?
If person too dey worry imself about wetin never happen, e fit come dey trust imself instead of God. And that one fit comot am for side. - Prov.		If a person is unduly anxious about what may happen in the future, he may try to rely on himself rather than on God, and that can adversely affect his relationship with. - Prov.
If we dey forgive other people, go forgive us.		If we practice forgiving others, will forgive us.
If we dey show sey we get faith for Jesus sacrifice, na favor go come dey rule us.		By exercising faith in Christ 's ransom sacrifice, we place ourselves under the rule of 's undeserved kindness.
If we no believe sey God dey, we fit know wetin good by ourself? Explain.		What can we say about the notion that an individual can determine what is good without believing in God?
If we think about wetin the Memorial bread and wine mean, how e go take help us?		How can reflecting on the meaning of the Memorial emblems help us to promote unity?
If we want stop this kind thing, we must get strong love for, and use all our mind hate bad thing. - Read Psalm 97: 10.		Developing a strong love for and a hatred for what is bad is the best way to stay free from pornography. - Read Psalm 97: 10.
and im organization really help us. We do wetin we fit do to help dem love.		With the help and direction of God 's organization, we did our best to raise them to love.
Make we see how the spirit fit help you.		Reflect briefly on how the fruitage of the spirit will help you.
Make we see one example: Imagine sey e get one small boy wey dey play ball inside house.		Consider this example: A little boy named Johnny is throwing a ball in the house.
Mutsuo talk sey: " E just be like sey near all of us wey the thing happen to one by one and e dey take care of us.		Mutsuo says: " I felt that was right next to each one of us and caring for us.
Na message dem dey preach and angel dey direct their work. - Rev.		They simply convey 's message, which is a part of their preaching work, done under angelic direction. - Rev.
Na Jesus example of how to train other people to do more work better pass.		In the matter of training others to take on increased responsibility, there is no better example than that of Jesus.
Na even Uriah David use send the letter about how dem go take kill Uriah! ( 2 Sam.		David even sent what amounted to Uriah 's death sentence by means of the man 's own hand!
Na for the year 607 before Jesus time, Babylon people come carry the people wey dey the two - tribe kingdom wey dey south for Israel go Babylon as slave.		In 607 B.C.E., the southern two - tribe kingdom and perhaps any remaining ones from the northern kingdom were taken into exile in Babylon.
Na so Jesus de happy, as e de do the things wey e Father talk.		As long as the branches are attached to it, they receive water and nourishment that flows from the vine.
Na so Maurizio take help me when I get problem.		Maurizio had done so with me when I needed help.
Na the elders for there go come judge the matter.		Some time later, he was sent back to the elders of the city where the killing had occurred, and those elders judged the case.
Nothing sweet dem reach to start to preach again!		More than anything else, they wanted to get to work!
Now, Maureen dey Canada dey take care of im mama and e dey do special pioneer work.		Today, while caring for her mother in Canada, Maureen still serves as a special pioneer.
Other people dey dash pikin wey no get mama and papa money. E still get some wey dey build school and hospital take help people for free.		Others point to their charitable activities or their endeavors in the fields of medicine and education.
Paul talk sey this one na true, when e sey: ' When we be God enemy, im Son come die for us to make us settle with God. ' ( Rom.		Paul acknowledged this: " When we were enemies we became reconciled to God through the death of his Son. "
Paul tell everybody sey make dem " talk better word wey go fit help person stand well. "		Being encouraging is not the exclusive responsibility of the elders.
Peter like im fish business well well.		Peter was quite attached to fishing.
Put Mind for Things Wey Get Value, June		Provides Comfort in All Our Trials, June
SONG: 51, 135		SONGS: 51, 135
Show sey you like wetin you dey learn from Bible ( Check paragraph 14 )		Show love for Bible truth ( See paragraph 14 )
Since Adam and Eve time, Satan want make people dey im side.		dignifies us by allowing us to share in supporting his sovereignty.
So, anybody wey support how God dey rule, go treat people well because e love dem.		Thus, that should be the way of all who love and uphold his way of ruling.
So, e come be like sey instead of the blessing wey e suppose get, na suffer dem suffer am.		For his righteous actions, he seemed to be punished rather than blessed.
So e come happen sey, for July 1953, I enter one ship wey dey go New York. The name of the ship na Georgic.		So it was that in July 1953, I was on board the ship called Georgic, heading toward New York.
So that as death don make sin rule as king, na so favor go use truth rule as king because of Jesus Christ wey go bring life wey no go end. ' - Rom.		So that just as sin ruled as king with death, so also undeserved kindness might rule as king through righteousness leading to everlasting life through Jesus Christ. " - Rom.
Some people think sey e go better if dem allow dem do anything wey dem like.		People may think that the more freedom they have, the better off they will be, but the reality is that having unbounded freedom is a two - edged sword.
That talk touch me and e make me give my life.		That motivated me to make my dedication to.
The angel tell Lot and im family make dem run comot from that place.		They urged him and his family to flee from the doomed cities.
The first time when me and my wife go convention na for 1991.		In 1991 my wife and I attended our first - ever convention in Alma - Ata, now known as Almaty, in Kazakhstan.
The mama tell dem sey: " E dey o, but I dey shame to talk am. "		It is embarrassing but yes, " the woman replied.
The ministerial servant go come get chance to see by imself wetin e mean for overseer to sabi teach, to dey patient, to get faith and love.		Elders thus give such brothers an opportunity to observe firsthand the teaching, faith, patience, and love required of Christian overseers.
The more we think how we fit use the things for Bible wey they fit guide us, the more our conscience go de direct us for the right way.		When we reason on godly principles, our conscience increasingly becomes a more reliable guide, attuned to God 's thinking.
The person na King Ahaziah wey be Ahab pikin. Ahaziah dey do bad things and na God enemy.		It was with an enemy of God, this time with the son of Ahab, wicked King Ahaziah.
The second topic talk about other better character wey dey inside the new character. E explain how we fit show sey we get this fine fine character for our life and when we dey preach.		The second article considers several qualities that are part of the new personality and explains how we can demonstrate these in our life and ministry.
The sister come show am some Bible verse wey answer the question.		The student and her teacher reviewed pertinent scriptures from the Bible.
The truth be sey, if we train other people now, as time dey go the work go dey move. - Eph.		However, training others saves time in the long run. - Eph.
Think about wetin do when the bad things wey people for Sodom and Gomorrah dey do come too much.		Consider what he did about the wrongdoing that was common in Sodom and Gomorrah.
This one fit be the book wey Moses write by imself.		This may have been the original document written by Moses.
We believe sey if we practice small, we go fit drive am!		Now on the road and with a little more practice, we were ready to go!
We come see one secondhand motor buy. Because we no sabi drive, we tell the person wey sell am give us make e drive am come give us.		We found a suitable secondhand car and asked the seller to deliver it to us, since none of us could drive.
We go still learn how papa and mama fit help their pikin make dem get faith for God and Bible.		We will also see how Christian parents can make it more interesting for their children to develop faith in God and in his Word.
We know this one from wetin e tell im brothers. E tell dem sey: ' Make una no fear.		Notice how this is reflected in what he told his brothers: " Do not be afraid.
We no fit forget wetin happen. I do practice with the brothers make dem fit know wetin dem go face for the court.		I prepared them for the trial and cross - examination by pretending to be the prosecuting attorney.
Wetin sabi about us one one, and wetin e go do for us?		What does know about us personally, and what will he do for us?
Wetin happen to the first marriage?		What happened to the first marriage?
Wetin we go gain if we dey think about the example of this four king?		How can you benefit from considering the accounts of the four kings as set out in this article?
Wetin we go learn for our next topic?		What will we consider in the next article?
Wetin we suppose do when person invite us come e house come chop?		How should we view accepting an invitation to a meal?
When dem disfellowship person, this one still dey show us sey love the congregation, because e no want make the bad person spoil other people. ( 1 Cor.		Even disfellowshipping reflects 's love, for it protects the congregation from bad influences.
When one brother dey give talk for Kingdom Hall., e read James 1: 23, 24.		During a talk at the Kingdom Hall., the speaker referred to James 1: 23, 24.
When we dey go assembly and convention, make we dey wear better cloth. Make our cloth no be like worldly people own.		When we attend assemblies and conventions, our dress needs to be appropriate and modest rather than reflect the extreme styles that may be common in the world.
When we start, we go need to force ourself do wetin Bible talk.		At first, we may need to discipline ourselves to do what is Scripturally right.
Which kind partial disciples of Jesus face?		What prejudice did Jesus ' followers experience?
Which special thing de make us dey happy?		What special cause for joy do we have?
Why e good make elders help the brothers wey dey congregation?		Why is it important that elders take an interest in the progress of men in the congregation?
You fit break something. "		You might break something. "
Faith na wetin dey make person believe sey wetin e dey wait for dey real even though e never see am. ' - HEB. 11: 1, ftn.		Faith is. the convincing evidence of realities that are not seen. " - HEB. 11: 1, ftn.
Green grass dey dry, flower dey fall, but God word go last forever. ' - ISA.		The green grass dries up, the blossom withers, but the word of our God endures forever. " - ISA.
But for some culture, beard beard no be better thing and dem feel sey better Christian no suppose dey keep beard beard.		In other cultures or localities, beards are not the custom and are not considered acceptable for Christian ministers.
Teach your pikin wetin you know about.		Put your heart into your teaching.
The brothers wey dey Judea dey preach to people wey already believe sey na one God dey.		Christians in Judea preached Christ to people who because of the influence of Judaism believed in one God.
[CONTENT_REMOVED]		See opening picture. )
Bad things wey fit make us suffer or die, fit happen to us anytime and anywhere.		Tragic accidents - perhaps with dire consequences - may occur because we are in the wrong place at the wrong time.
Wetin show say James and John no really understand wetin Jesus de try teach them?		What shows that James and John did not fully get the point?
How we go take show and other people sey we love dem? Make we no only dey beg to bring more people wey go preach.		For example, when a fellow Christian lacks the basic necessities of life, he needs more than our good wishes.
So, dem no fit hide from at all!		There is no hiding from God.
Jesus still promise sey e go help us today, as e take help the apostles wey dey follow am waka that time.		Jesus ' promise of support still applies.
This one mean sey, for person to serve God for the correct way, e need to believe sey dey use Jesus do wetin e get for mind.		Anyone who wished to serve God acceptably would have to acknowledge and accept Jesus ' role in the outworking of 's purpose.
Make we come learn how Jesus death make God name dey holy, how e go make people fit rule for God Kingdom and enter paradise, and how e go make God do wetin e get for mind.		To heighten our appreciation for the ransom, let us consider how it relates to the sanctification of God 's name, the rule of God 's Kingdom, and the accomplishment of God 's purpose.
Give one example.		Relate an example.
Dem no too write God name for King James Version. Na only for some verse dem write am.		Notably, the King James Version drew only limited attention to God 's name.
The truth be say, e disciples no really understand wetin Jesus mean. E talk this one because small time, e go die.		Though they did not clearly grasp it, their Leader 's life on earth would soon end, but they would not be left without support.
Sometimes, e dey make sense to do like that.		At times, it may be wise for us to do similarly.
But David still get other friend, like prophet Nathan.		But David had other friends, such as the prophet Nathan.
Around 50 C.E., Paul write letter to the brothers for the new congregation for Thessalonica. E tell dem sey: " We dey always thank God when we mention all of una for our prayer, because we dey always remember una better work, the work wey una dey do because of love, and the way una dey endure. "		About the year 50 C.E., Paul wrote to the young congregation in Thessalonica: " We always thank God when we mention all of you in our prayers, for we continually remember your faithful work, your loving labor, and your endurance. "
Jesus make people know sey na im Father tell am the things wey e dey teach people, and na im still give am the sense wey e get.		And he gave his Father the credit for his teachings and wisdom.
Even though say e take time, they change the way them de think.		Although it took time, they adjusted their way of thinking.
That time, people dey write for only one side of scroll. But as dem write for the two side of this scroll, e show sey the message really serious.		Usually, only one side of a scroll was used, so this scroll clearly contains a weighty and serious message.
All this pioneers don know sey one of the way wey dem fit use their life do the thing wey better pass na to pioneer.		These pioneers are fully awake to the fact that the full - time ministry is one of the best ways to spend their lives.
As Beishenbai Berdibaev take talk am		As told by Beishenbai Berdibaev
But send prophet Shemaiah go meet Rehoboam and the army. The prophet tell them say: " Make wuna no go up go fight wuna brothers, they be Israel people.		But intervened through the prophet Shemaiah, saying: " You must not go up and fight against your Israelite brothers.
But e no pain God people sey dem go Jerusalem.		Yet, the people took heart.
But e still want make we use our money take support the work wey im organization dey do today.		He still expects us, however, to use our finances to support the work of his organization today.
But e use am settle matter wey concern heaven and earth because e use im mind come die, and e no stop to do wetin God want. - Heb.		Jesus ' willingness to die while upholding 's righteousness addresses matters of universal importance. - Heb.
But for 2013, dem talk sey nine million people wey never reach 60 years dey die every year because of heart disease, stroke, cancer, breathing problem, and diabetes. What of poverty?		But a report published in 2013 noted that each year a staggering nine million people under the age of 60 die from heart disease, stroke, cancer, respiratory disease, and diabetes.
But our different character fit still cause wahala. One brother wey don be elder tey tey, talk sey: ' E fit hard person wey dey shame to dey with another person wey free with people.		An experienced elder gives this example: " Someone who is shy can have a difficult time being around an outgoing, backslapping person.
But this one no mean sey dem go just dey kill people anyhow; na only bad people dem go kill.		The righteous would not be destroyed along with the wicked.
But we dey copy Noah example, we no dey fear people.		Like Noah, however, we fear, not men.
Direct people to jw.org make dem hear the " good news. " ( Matt.		Directing people to jw.org helps to spread the " good news. "
E be like sey dem prepare the chariot ( horse wey get wetin dem take dey carry person ) for war.		This would help to distinguish one rider from the next.
E dey make dem happy. Dem know sey blessing better pass money or property.		They understand that being generous is a way to gain " true " riches.
E dey make person mind come down to know sey if we dey show sey we get faith for wetin Jesus do, go forgive our sin.		What a relief it is to learn that if we exercise faith in the shed blood of Jesus, our sins will be forgiven and our conscience will be cleansed!
E do God work well well.		He worked hard in sacred service.
E get some place wey government no want make people get gun, or make only some people get. If we dey stay that kind place, make we follow wetin government talk. - Rom.		Where gun ownership is illegal, restricted, or regulated in some other way, Christians obey the law. - Rom.
E go help us dey sure of why e good make we continue to dey ' put God Kingdom first, ' no be other things. - Luke 12: 31.		Doing so should convince us that we must ' keep seeking the Kingdom, ' not things. - Luke 12: 31.
E go make my family happy and get peace?		Will it bring joy and peace to my family?
E just be like sey hope no dey again. - Ezra 4: 21 - 24.		The future of that city seemed uncertain. - Ezra 4: 21 - 24.
E no better make we just wait and see wetin go happen?		Is it not better just to wait and see?
E reach about 15 chapter for Genesis wey talk about Abraham.		Some 15 chapters of the book of Genesis are devoted to the account about Abraham.
E stop to do wetin the flesh want and start to do wetin good. - 2 Cor.		He ceased to walk after the flesh and returned to a straight path. - 2 Cor.
E talk sey: " My papa, my uncle, and my grandmamma sister, advice me make I go university.		He relates: " My father, uncle, and grandaunt all encouraged me to pursue higher education.
E teach dem sey, make dem let their ' Yes ' be yes, and make their ' No ' be no. - Matt.		Instead, he taught: " Just let your word ' Yes ' mean yes, your ' No, ' no. " - Matt.
Even if na so, the woman go still try teach the children Bible.		Even so, a Christian wife does what she can to teach the children Bible truth.
For April 3, 2017, we open one Bible museum for our headquarters wey dey Warwick, New York, for U.S.A.		On April 3, 2017, a Bible museum opened at our world headquarters in Warwick, New York, U.S.A.
For example, Bible talk about one of dem wey dem disfellowship. But after, e repent, and e come back. ( 1 Cor.		The Bible mentions one anointed Christian in the first century who had to be disfellowshipped; later, he was reinstated.
For us to know how we like money reach, e good make we ask ourself this question: ' I really believe wetin Bible talk about money and I dey follow am?		To analyze our view of money, we might honestly consider how we would answer these questions: ' Do I really believe and live in harmony with what the Bible says about money?
Give one example wey show why e be sey if we know how dey think, we go fit choose the correct thing.		Give an example of how we can make a wise decision when we consider what thinks.
God give dem power and e bless dem because dem no stop to dey do wetin e like.		God strengthened and blessed them because they kept on showing deep appreciation for spiritual things.
God go quick resurrect people wey sabi lead for Bible time to come direct im people for paradise?		Will faithful men of old with leadership abilities come back early to help organize God 's people in the new world?
How God Law take help Moses?		How was Moses guided by God 's Law?
I come know the kind ice cream wey my customers dey like and I come sabi do ice cream well.		I got better acquainted with my customers ' tastes and became more skillful in making ice cream.
I dey ready to forgive people wey do wetin pain me? '		Am I ready to forgive those who sin against me personally? '
the people wey we dey preach to?		the people in our territory?
If we know where we fit do am, e no go hard us to know how we go do am.		Once we have determined where the material can be applied, it may become easier to perceive how we can put it to work.
If you be young person, you don plan wetin you want use your life do for?		If you are a youth, do you have clear spiritual goals?
If you want know more about work wey fit make person carry gun, go check The Watchtower of November 1, 2005, p. 31; and July 15, 1983, pp. 25 - 26 ( for English ).		Further details on the question of accepting employment that involves being armed are found in The Watchtower of November 1, 2005, p. 31; and July 15, 1983, pp. 25 - 26.
Jehoshaphat for remember sey ' eye dey look everywhere for the earth, so that e fit support the people wey dey use all their mind serve am. '		In our time too, God 's eyes are " roving about through all the earth, " and he is ready " to show his strength " in our behalf.
Jephthah know sey na only God fit help am save Israel people from Ammon people hand.		Jephthah knew that he needed God 's help to free Israel from the Ammonites.
Jesus take care of the disciples and de always think about the things wey they need.		He took care of his disciples and considered their needs.
Julia na one young sister and e dey 16 years. E talk say: " I de put our books inside my schoolbag. And when my classmates de talk about their own belief and wetin they think, I go listen.		I keep literature in my schoolbag, " says Julia, 16, " and I listen to the opinions and beliefs expressed by my classmates.
Make dem ready to change wetin dem think and wetin dem first choose, if dem suppose change am. E good make all of us copy their example.		They should be ready to adjust their thinking and decisions when appropriate, and all of us do well to follow that example.
Make sure sey you use Bible well well for your talk.		Make sure that the Scriptures form the backbone of your talk.
Makenzie na another sister, e dey 23 years. E talk say: " If you like people and you sabi listen to wetin them de talk, you fit understand wetin other young people de face.		Makenzie, 23, says: " If you are kind and are a good listener, you 'll get an idea of what your peers are dealing with.
Me and the brother wey be overseer for printery come dey go from house to house around Bethel. We dey ask people if dem go like sell their land. But nobody want sell.		The printery overseer and I went from house to house in the neighborhood of the branch, asking whether anyone wanted to sell his property.
Michael tell me sey e don start to study Bible with three people but e need help to fit teach dem well.		Michael explained that he had started three studies and needed some help in conducting them. "
Na God suppose still mold us one one.		God also has the authority to mold us personally.
Na Hilda!		It was Hilda!
Na im make God punish Eli family. ( 1 Sam.		As a result, God adversely judged the household of Eli.
Na so Adam and Eve go don feel about this things.		Adam and Eve no doubt felt the same.
Na so e still be today.		The same is true today.
Na the better example wey we follow, na im dey make us dey happy well well. And we still happy sey we show the same example to our pikin and grand pikin.		The joy we have is due, in large part, to the fine examples that were set for us and that we have endeavored to mirror for the benefit of our children and grandchildren.
Na wetin I get for mind to do, and I go still do am. ' - ISA.		I have purposed it, and I will also carry it out. " - ISA.
Nadine smile talk sey: " We no be small children wey dey quick learn language. "		We 're not 20 - year - olds anymore, " says Nadine with a smile.
One of the people wey e preach to na Peter. Don talk sey: ' Peter dirty well well.		Regarding one of these individuals, Don relates: " A homeless man named Peter was one of the dirtiest men I had ever seen in the back alleys.
One regular pioneer for Otavalo city wey dey northern Ecuador, dey use Quichua ( Imbabura ) language preach to person wey dey sell something for one market wey dem dey weave cloth.		A regular pioneer shares the Bible 's message in the Quichua ( Imbabura ) language with a vendor at a crafts market in the city of Otavalo in northern Ecuador.
One way we take dey worship na to dey contribute.		Giving is also an expression of our worship of.
Our hope as Christian de protect our mind, just as helmet de protect soldier for head make something no nack - am. ( 1 Thess.		Just as a helmet protects a soldier 's brain, our " hope of salvation " protects our mind, our thinking ability.
Our work for there na to clean kitchen, and the work dey make us tire well well.		We had to work hard cleaning the kitchen, and this made us very tired.
So if we dey respect people wey dey direct us, e go better for us.		We benefit from doing so, for God has our interests at heart.
So when we dey do like Jesus, we self go happy.		It can make you happy too.
Still get am for mind sey, the Hebrew language wey dem use take write Bible no get punctuation ( sign wey dey make reading easy for person ) like, quotation mark.		Keep in mind, too, that the original Hebrew text had no punctuation, such as quotation marks.
The next thing wey Jesus tell am, make am dey sure of wetin e don first talk.		Jesus went on to give her more reassurance by saying: " Your faith has made you well.
The wall get one place wey dem fit open.		Investigation of the site has revealed that the two pools were divided by a dam.
The woman talk sey some problem dey im family and some things dey worry am.		She explained that she was beset by personal and family problems.
Their faith go strong more more when we help dem. - Prov.		Our compassion and practical help can strengthen their faith. - Prov.
Think am sey people wey no support as King fit live forever.		Suppose that humans who chose self - rule could live forever.
This great tribulation no go waste time come!		He is counting down the time to the start of the great tribulation, and its start " will not be late! "
This one go make dem ready to promise sey dem go use all their mind serve am.		Yes, they need a conviction that is so strong that it moves them to dedicate themselves to and to serve him wholeheartedly.
This one go make you near am well well.		This brings you even closer to him.
This one show sey the apostle dem want make peace dey. Dem no want make the brothers for the congregation dey feel sey dem dey support one side. - Acts 6: 2 - 6.		These men all had Greek names, which seems to indicate that the apostles wanted to ease any tensions over background that might have existed among the early Christians. - Acts 6: 2 - 6.
Today, we dey preach the good news for everywhere before the world go end. But many people no dey want hear. Wetin this one teach us?		Today, most people refuse to listen to the good news of God 's Kingdom that is being preached throughout the earth for a witness to all the nations before this wicked system is brought to its end.
Use any chance wey you get to talk wetin go make people strong.		Seize opportunities to encourage others.
We still learn say, we get plenty gift. We get joy, we get peace, Jesus na our friend, and de answer our prayer.		In addition, the gifts of joy, peace, friendship, and answered prayers strengthen us to finish God 's work.
Wetin dey Luke 16: 10 - 13 show sey we fit use ' this world property ' take serve.		The verses that follow the illustration connect the use of " unrighteous riches " with faithfulness to God.
Wetin fit help person wey dey serve when im person die?		How can a Christian deal with the shock of losing a loved one in death?
Wetin make David fit dey think sey Solomon no go fit direct the work, but wetin David do?		Why might David have concluded that Solomon was unqualified, but what did he do?
Wetin many people dey talk about religion?		What view of religion do many people have?
Wetin men and women wey get strong faith for Bible time believe?		What hope did faithful men and women of pre - Christian times cherish?
Wetin you fit do to help old people or people wey dey sick?		How can you assist the sick and the elderly?
When I no gree, dem come carry me go meet the main oga for the camp.		When I refused, they hauled me before the camp commandant.
Why e be sey we need to train people?		Why is there a need to train others?
Why e be sey whether we believe sey God dey or sey life start by imself, we need faith? And wetin we suppose do for this matter?		Why do beliefs about God and the origin of life always involve some type of faith, and what sound approach should we take?
Why you dey sure sey God Word get power?		Why can there be no doubt that God 's Word exerts power?
Willie come tell am sey: " Your papa dey for hell! "		Willie responded, " Your father is in hell! "
Young people wey dey serve need to get strong mind. Why?		Christian youths face many situations in which they need to show courage to serve.
No dey carry wetin una do unaself for mind and no stop to dey use all una mind forgive unaself, even if na wetin suppose make you vex for the other person. '		Continue putting up with one another and forgiving one another freely even if anyone has a cause for complaint against another.
Even as im children no gree do wetin want, e still continue to serve and do wetin go make am happy.		Elderly Samuel could not force his adult sons to remain loyal to the righteous standards he taught them.
Person wey be Nazirite fit marry and e fit born pikin.		A Nazirite was allowed to marry and have a family.
Wetin dey real wey we never see. '		Realities that are not seen. "
Apostle Paul talk sey e " condemn the world with im faith. "		Through this faith he condemned the world, " wrote the apostle Paul.
Which things e no get power to do?		And what are the limits of his power?
Ask yourself, ' I ready to dey forgive and control how I dey feel? '		Do you need to be more forgiving or to give attention to controlling your emotions?
If dem dey praise person for wetin e do, make we no jealous am. But make we happy for the person even if we think sey dem suppose praise us like am.		And rather than envying those who receive praise, we rejoice with them even if we feel that we deserve equal honor or a share of the credit for what was done.
How the scribe and Pharisee take turn God Law upside down?		How did the scribes and Pharisees misrepresent the Law?
How your student go feel if e don like Bible well well?		What is a Bible student likely to do if he develops heartfelt love for the Scriptures?
Wetin be the three things wey we take from wetin Paul tell Timothy?		Paul admonished Timothy about what three aspects of learning?
Why you dey sure sey Devil don block people mind make dem no believe wetin Bible talk?		What convinces you that the Devil has influenced people to ignore Bible prophecy?
This thing vex one man wey im name na Rabbi Simeon ben Gamaliel no be small, sotey e come reduce all the sacrifice wey dem first dey do. Na that one come make the price of two pigeon come down well well. And na only three hours person go work to fit buy am.		Rabbi Simeon ben Gamaliel, outraged by this state of affairs, reduced the number of obligatory sacrifices, upon which the price of two pigeons immediately fell to a hundredth of the former price.
like am when we dey feel for other people and when we help dem.		It touches 's heart when we show compassion toward others.
Which better thing dey come out when we show love to refugee people?		What good comes from showing refugees Christian love?
Joy - Na Character Wey God Dey Give Us		Joy - A Quality We Acquire From God
You Still Remember?		Do You Remember?
So make we no stop to dey beg for holy spirit like Paul.		So let us, like Paul, keep on asking for holy spirit.
And Paul believe sey one day, people wey don die go come back to life.		And Paul stressed the resurrection as something he had faith in.
E no easy for papa and mama to do this one for this world wey we dey. ( 2 Tim.		That is a major undertaking, especially in today 's world.
But we still dey make mistake because of the sin wey dey our body.		Nevertheless, we are still imperfect.
The thing wey Adam, Eve, and the wicked angels do, teach us which two important lessons?		What two lessons may we learn from the accounts about Adam, Eve, and the rebellious angels?
Acts 15: 28, 29 ) E good make we pray make help us fit do wetin Bible talk.		Prayer will help us to make decisions that relate to Scriptural principles and laws.
Peace - How You Fit Get - Am?		Peace - How Can You Find It?
After Peter don try to catch fish for the whole night, wetin come happen?		After spending a night fishing, what experience did Peter have?
After sometime, e come baptize, and na elder e be now for im congregation.		He was baptized, and today he serves as an elder.
And na wetin do when e make Adam and Eve.		That, in fact, was what God did with his human creation right from the beginning.
Anytime wey I see my former workmate, dem dey laugh me. Dem dey ask me why I think sey to sell ice cream better pass to do computer work for inside air - condition.		When I met my former workmates, they would laugh at me and ask why I thought selling ice cream was better than working with computers in an air - conditioned environment.
Anytime wey we tell people the truth about the Kingdom, e be like say we de spread that seed wey they plant for our heart. ( Luke 6: 45; 8: 1 ) So, wetin this example de teach us?		Each time we in one way or another proclaim the Kingdom message, we duplicate and scatter, so to speak, the seed that was planted in our heart.
Apostle Paul write sey: ' The time wey remain no reach anything. '		The time left is reduced, " wrote Paul.
Araceli: When I start to study Bible with Witness people, I think sey I no go fit trust dem.		Araceli: When I started studying the Bible with 's, I felt that I could not trust them.
Around the time wey use different different Judge save dem, Israel people no choose well many times.		Repeatedly during the time of the Judges, the Israelites chose unwisely.
As e comot from prison, e goTulun. One brother tell me sey one sister dey come. I come ride my bicycle go meet the sister for where motor drop am.		When a brother in Tulun told me that a sister was coming, I went on my bicycle to the bus stop to meet the sister and to offer to help with her luggage.
Because I just comot from prison, na small money dey my hand.		Fresh out of prison, I had little money.
Before Jesus talk sey people go stop to get love, e talk about the love wey big pass.		Earlier on the same day that Jesus warned about the loss of love, he emphasized the most important love of all.
But, because of their strong faith ' dem put eye for the better place ' wey ' God don promise. ' ( Heb.		However, they kept their eyes of faith focused on the future " fulfillment of [ God 's ] promises "; they were " reaching out for a better place. "
But, e don give us the chance to fit use our sense take choose by ourself wetin good. This one go show sey we dey follow wetin dey Bible.		Instead, he has permitted us to exercise our free will and make sensible personal decisions, which should be guided by sound Scriptural principles.
But know wetin Moses need. Moses want dey sure sey go help am. Na im make wetin tell Moses help am know sey e ready to help people wey dey serve am.		Yet, to Moses, who was seeking reassurance of God 's backing, emphasized instead qualities that underscore his willingness to help his servants.
But Noah no " fear " dem. ( Prov.		But he was not " trembling at men. "
But one huge white brother just follow us for back. The brother big pass the two of us.		But a white brother, far larger than either me or the rough - looking customer, came in after us.
But our heart de sweet us say, we no need to first suffer before we know say e no good to do the thing wey hate.		Thankfully, we do not need to suffer the consequences of breaking God 's laws to learn valuable lessons.
But the court no gree. So, dem sey I go stay prison for 31 days.		But the courts did not agree, so I was sentenced to 31 days in prison.
But the time wey I don ready to write letter say I no go come the school again, something happen wey I no go ever forget.		In fact, I was getting ready to write a letter declining the invitation when something happened that I will never forget.
But this word asher fit still mean wetin dey come out of something wey happen. So dem fit still translate am as " that, " " so that, " or " then. "		However, asher can also indicate result or consequence and can be translated " that, " " so that, " or " then. "
But we dey follow the advice wey dey Bible, wey dey help us choose cloth wey we like and wey good.		Rather, we are guided by Scriptural principles that allow room for personal preferences.
Check " Question From People Wey Dey Read Our Book " wey dey December 15, 2001 Watchtower for English.		See " Questions From Readers " in The Watchtower of December 15, 2001.
Dem need strong mind because Satan no want make dem do things wey go make happy.		That is because such young ones are going against the will of Satan, the one who taunts God.
Dem see work wey help dem continue to pioneer. Today, dem dey one congregation wey dey Veraguas for Panama.		They found secular work to support themselves as pioneers, and today they serve in a congregation in the province of Veraguas, Panama.
E advise other people make dem serve.		He urged others to serve.
E know sey to continue to do wetin God want, e go need to beg God make e help am.		In order to maintain his integrity, he needed to turn to his heavenly Father for strength.
E no easy for my mama to take care of me and my junior sister.		Mother struggled to care for my younger sister and me.
E no shame to talk am. Many people fit no talk am come out like this man.		The man took out his wallet, removed some paper money, held it up, and proudly said, " This is my god! "
E pack go another place with im husband and im pikin. Dem start to make new friends when dem reach their new congregation.		After Melissa and her family moved to a new congregation, they concentrated on making new friends.
For example, go like us well well if we dey serve am with joy no matter the problem wey we get. ( Deut. 16: 15; 1 Thess.		For example, we will become more pleasing to our heavenly Father as we joyfully serve him no matter what problems we may face.
For one convention wey dem go for 2005, Thierry and im wife, Nadia, watch the drama wey be " Pursue Goals That Honor God. "		At a convention in 2005, Thierry and his wife, Nadia, watched the drama " Pursue Goals That Honor God. "
For this topic, we go learn why e good make people dey settle quarrel with people and how dem go fit do am.		This article will consider why 's servants need to settle differences and how they can succeed in doing so.
From government, people wey dey lead for religion, and people wey don comot for organization come dey lie about us.		He uses lies and threats from governments, religious leaders, and apostates.
Hormone IUD: E get different type of IUD wey get hormone. The hormone wey this IUD get just still be like the one wey dey tablet wey women dey take so that dem no go get belle.		Hormone: There are different types of IUDs that contain a hormone similar to what is often found in birth control pills.
How Noah example take teach us wetin e mean to get faith?		How does Noah 's example help us to understand what it means to have faith?
How other people fit help papa and mama and their children wey come from another country?		How can others help immigrant parents and their children?
How the weather be and how the people dey do things?		Have I considered the climate and the culture?
How we suppose love our brothers and sisters?		How can we show that we are " putting up with one another in love "?
I show sey na God spirit dey control me or I behave like people for this world? ' - Gal.		Was it the world 's spirit or God 's spirit? ' - Gal.
I think say they want make I just come serve for Bethel for some time. But, e no happen as I think.		I assumed that the responsible brothers at Bethel only wanted me to help out temporarily, but that is not how things turned out.
If e force im wife to dey respect am, the respect no go last.		If he forcefully or harshly demands it, he will have short - term results.
If we dey think about their better example, e go help us use our mind wait for. ( Rom.		We will be more willing to wait if we remember faithful men and women of old who waited patiently for to fulfill his promises.
Instead make people for the world love God, dem ' love only theirself. '		The world around us has a distorted view of love.
no go ever forget wetin we do for am and how we take show sey we love am. - Heb.		They will remain forever, cherished in 's memory.
Jesus death don make us get clean conscience as we dey serve God. And this one dey make us happy well well. - Ps.		By means of the ransom, we can serve our God with a clean conscience and find real delight in doing so. - Ps.
Jesus give us better advice wey go help us know how to get wetin we really need for life. E no want make we comot mind for God side, begin pursue big big things or worry ourself too much because we want get wetin we need.		Jesus gave us the best counsel for securing the necessities of life without being sidetracked, becoming materialistic, or creating needless anxiety for ourselves.
Joseph of Arimathea, Oct.		Cause of Suffering? No.
Life no easy for am as e no easy for many of us today.		As is true of most of us today, Jacob did not have an easy life.
Make we dey settle any matter wey we get with our brothers. This one be like where person dey patch im house wey don dey crack.		We should work to repair, as it were, any fissurelike weaknesses that may appear.
Make we no ever do like dem, but make we ' take all our mind trust. ' - Prov.		Instead, may we " trust in with all [ our ] heart. " - Prov.
Make we see some example.		Consider a few examples.
Make we self know sey our work for organization fit change. Many times, na because of the plan wey we get.		We can likewise expect our assignments to change from time to time, often because of decisions we make.
Many of Lije family people come stay United Nations refugee camp.		Most of Lije 's family eventually spent years in United Nations refugee camps.
Many of dem don change how dem dey live their life, come get strong faith, come even baptize.		Many of them are moved to change their lifestyle, to exercise faith, and to become baptized Christians.
Many of our brothers and sisters don show sey dem trust and do wetin dem fit do to help theirself.		Many of our modern - day fellow believers have similarly demonstrated trust in and have taken appropriate action.
Me and other deaf people for one convention for Cleveland, Ohio, for 1946		With a group of deaf people at a convention in Cleveland, Ohio, in 1946
Na Babylon Daniel stay almost all im life but God angel still talk sey Daniel na ' special person. ' - Dan.		Daniel lived in Babylon nearly all his life; yet, God 's angel said that he was a " very precious man. " - Dan.
Na Bible and holy spirit dey use to help us know wetin e want, so that we go fit do am.		By means of his Word and holy spirit, helps us to discern his will, to do it, and to change our life to the extent necessary in order to meet his requirements.
Na im dem make leader around eight years after Jesus die. For one special meeting, Herod come wear ' king cloth. '		At a diplomatic function, Herod clothed himself " with royal raiment. "
Na one better way to take show sey we love am and we like wetin e dey do for us.		It is a powerful way to show our love and appreciation for.
Na seven o 'clock for morning them de reach the place.		Still, as they have done for decades, in the morning they walk to a square in a busy section of town, arriving there at seven o 'clock.
Na sword I carry come, no be peace. ' - MATT.		Do not think I came to bring peace to the earth; I came to bring, not peace, but a sword. " - MATT.
No worry because I be your God.		Do not be anxious, for I am your God.
One day, when I dey around 2 years, my family come see me as I dey draw one horse tail for the farm.		One day when I was a toddler, my family saw me pulling at the tail of one of the farm horses, a stallion.
Or, husband, you know whether na you go save your wife? ' ( 1 Cor.		Or, husband, how do you know whether you will save your wife? "
Paul do wetin dem tell am, and this one later give am chance to preach the good news. ( Phil.		Paul did that, which led to opportunities to ' defend and legally establish the good news. '
Paul show us better example of how to let other people choose wetin dem go do.		Paul set a fine example of respecting his brothers ' right of free will to make decisions.
Plenty people dey baptize every year, and many of dem na young people.		Among the thousands who get baptized each year are young ones - teenagers and preteens.
Proverbs 3: 13 - 15 talk sey: ' The man wey don see the good sense wey e dey find go happy and even the man wey get deep sense; to get am better pass to get silver, and to get am as gain better pass to get gold.		Proverbs 3: 13 - 15 says: " Happy is the man who finds wisdom and the man who acquires discernment; to gain it is better than gaining silver, and having it as profit is better than having gold.
Remember say the vine na Jesus, and the different - different branch na e disciples.		As mentioned earlier, Jesus compared himself to a vine and his disciples to branches.
Samuelson ), Mar.		Sivulsky ), Aug.
So that nothing go chance God Kingdom for our life, e good make we continue to shine our eye. ( Prov.		We must remain alert to things that actively compete for our affection, including the desire for material things and any immoral sexual desires.
Some of dem bend, dem no straight. Dem dey put am for chariot tire, sometimes for center of tire.		Scythes would have stuck out from the chariots, possibly from the axles.
That one really help me to know the truth wey dey Bible, and I no come dey fear to meet another pastor again.		That really helped me to make the truth my own, and I could hardly wait to meet up with another preacher.
The helmet wey Roman soldier de wear de protect their head, neck and face.		The helmet worn by the Roman infantry was designed to ward off blows directed at the head, neck, and face.
The promise fit be about wetin the person go do, gift wey e want give God, special work wey e want do for God or about things wey e go comot hand from.		A person promises to perform some act, to offer some gift, to enter some type of service, or to abstain from certain things.
The publishers come near each other more more.		The publishers drew closer to one another.
Them de see say we de dress well, we de smile with people and we no de talk to people anyhow.		They notice our neat attire, polite behavior, and warm smile.
This one de make me want continue to preach. "		It gives me the desire to keep on preaching. "
This one fit make government reduce the tax wey the person dey pay.		This arrangement may provide certain tax advantages.
This woman like make dem dey tell am wetin e go do instead of am to use the freedom wey God give us to choose wetin we want do.		The woman preferred being told what to do instead of using a precious gift from her Creator, the gift of free will.
Try make other people sabi them. Help them make they feel relax.		Try to introduce them to others, thus making newcomers feel at home.
Two topic wey help me well well na ' Is Not to Blame ' and ' Serve Loyally, ' wey dey November 15, 1992 Watchtower. '		I also received much encouragement from the articles ' Is Not to Blame ' and ' Serve Loyally, ' found in The Watchtower of November 15, 1992. "
We dey get the chance to ' do good for everybody ' when we go preach to dem. ( Gal.		When we share the Kingdom message with others, we have a fine opportunity to do " good toward all. "
We dey tell am sey, ' Abeg help us know whether we dey do something wey dey make am hard for people to near us. '		If my husband and I feel a little disconnected from the congregation, " she says, " we pray specifically to, ' Please let us know if we are doing something that makes it hard for others to be drawn to us. '
Wetin be the quarrel wey some people get wey dey Genesis? And wetin make am dey Bible?		What human struggles are featured in Genesis, and why is this of interest?
Wetin go help us run from sex wey no clean for God eye?		How can a Christian keep far away from sexual immorality?
Wetin papa and mama go try do, and why?		Of what should parents make sure, and why?
Wetin you go do if katakata dey your family because you dey serve?		What should you do if you experience family division because you are following Jesus?
When I dey around nine years, my mama start to go where International Bible Students Association ( wey dem come dey call Witness ) dey do their meeting or " class. "		When I was about nine, my mother began going to the hall of the International Bible Students Association, where people who had adopted the name 's held their " classes, " or meetings.
Which kind thing e no good mek we dey think?		What thinking must we avoid?
Which work you go like do for the new earth wey go soon bring?		What are some activities that you look forward to taking part in when this old system of things is gone?
Who Jesus give the work to dey help us sabi wetin dey Bible?		What is the only channel that is being used to help us understand God 's Word?
Why e good make we no dey vex anyhow?		Why should we guard against bitterness?
I don talk am, and I go do am.		I have spoken, and I will bring it about.
Why e good make we de remember why we de preach?		Why is it important for us to keep in mind why we preach?
Wetin Peter do for the day of Pentecost and after that day, show sey e get mind.		He encouraged his brothers by his courageous example at Pentecost and thereafter.
Wetin we go do make God spirit dey direct us more more?		What can help us to grow spiritually?
Wetin 1 Timothy 3: 2 - 7 dey teach us about the kind person wey be?		What do the qualifications for Christian elders tell us about?
Why Jephthah pikin need better word?		Why did Jephthah 's daughter need to be encouraged?
Another thing be sey, we go dey use all the things wey organization dey give us. Things like magazine, JW Broadcasting, JW Library, and jw.org. - Luke 12: 42.		In addition, we want to make good use of the various means by which spiritual food is now made available to God 's people worldwide. - Luke 12: 42.
Wetin God sey make Joshua and the kings wey rule for Israel do?		What were Joshua and the kings who ruled God 's people required to do?
Sometimes when we dey problem, wetin fit dey come our mind? How take dey use Bible help us?		How might we at times feel about our trials, but how does use his Word to help us?
How we fit help new publishers know why e good to help their brothers and sisters?		How can we help new ones grasp the importance of helping their brothers and sisters?
Instead of our light to shine, e go de quench small - small sotey e fit even quench finish.		Instead of shining brilliantly in our neighborhood, our light will flicker and could even go out.
To fit settle quarrel, make we be people wey ' dey do everything we fit do to make peace. '		In order to settle differences, we must earnestly " seek peace and pursue it. "
Na true, all of us need to dey patient.		Yes, we all need patience.
All of dem begin talk about their family the first time when dem see.		Within minutes of their first encounter, the three were talking about their families.
All the place wey dem go, people gree hear wetin dem dey preach.		They found hearing ears everywhere.
As that one happen, we come dey enjoy to do things together.		That was truly one of the best things that has ever happened to me.
Because of wetin dem see for the pieces. Na olden days language dem use write wetin dem see.		It was not the fragments in themselves but what was written on them.
Bible talk sey: ' Another man [ Jesus ] wey obey God go make many people righteous. '		Through the obedience of the one person [ Jesus ] many will be made righteous.
But Jesus Christ talk about one simple way to take get real freedom.		In contrast, Jesus Christ pointed out a simple way to enjoy true freedom.
But before that time reach, God dey give im people food and wetin dem need. ( Ps.		In the meantime, God sustains his faithful servants.
But make dem choose wetin go make God happy, and wetin no go make their conscience judge dem. - Check 1 Timothy 1: 18, 19; 2 Timothy 1: 3.		They should make their decision as a couple interested in pleasing God and maintaining a clean conscience before him. - Compare 1 Timothy 1: 18, 19; 2 Timothy 1: 3.
But make dem no forget sey the main thing na to help their children become Jesus disciple.		However, they should never lose sight of their goal - to have their children become Christian disciples.
But no be for everything Bible give us law.		However, there are numerous situations for which the Bible provides no specific command.
Dem dey fly pass where we dey - between where Nazi dey control for Europe and London.		We were exactly under the flight path between Nazi - occupied Europe and London.
Dem go pursue their wife so that dem fit marry young women or even women wey no dey serve.		Such men thus rid themselves of the wives of their youth, perhaps to marry younger women or even pagan women.
Dem still add some song join the new songbook. Some of the new song dey talk about our preaching work and how to show sey we value Jesus sacrifice.		Further, new songs about our preaching work and songs that express our appreciation for the ransom have been included.
Dem still dey punish anybody wey cause trouble. Dem dey allow the local elders handle the rest of the things wey dey happen for Judea.		Otherwise, the Romans were usually content to leave the day - to - day administration of the province in the hands of local leaders.
E clear sey, papa and mama wey dey stay another country suppose spend time and do everything to help their children near more more.		Clearly, immigrant parents must devote more time and show more initiative in order to help their children develop a strong relationship with.
E fit be matter about school, work, or whether dem go marry or get pikin.		These include education, employment, and family life.
E get another wahala wey make us fear.		We had another frightening experience.
E get one woman wey dem know well well for Shunem. The woman no get pikin.		A prominent Israelite woman in Shunem showed Elisha exceptional hospitality.
E get other wahala wey we face.		Actually, we faced other significant challenges.
E good make we check ourself well.		Self - examination is important.
E good to dey use Bible when we dey preach. But wetin go help us use am well?		What can help us to make good use of God 's Word in our ministry?
E help dem " understand everything " wey dem suppose do to make am happy.		He helped them to " understand everything " necessary to please him.
E no get any other person wey fit help us reach!		There is no safer place to be!
E no go hard us to make better friend. We no go dey vex or let things worry us for mind like other people.		They are more stable emotionally, they are better at forming wholesome relationships, and they are not as angry and prone to anxiety and depression as are impulsive people.
E ready to make our mind come down, and to make us happy. ( Ps.		Today, is eager to comfort us and to soothe our emotional wounds.
E sey: ' When dem suffer una for one town, make una run go another one. ' ( Matt.		He said: " When they persecute you in one city, flee to another. "
E talk say: " That style of preaching really make me happy. "		I found great joy in that form of ministry, " he says.
E talk this one when one scribe ask say: " Na who really be my neighbor? " Jesus use one story answer the man.		He used an opportunity to do so when a scribe asked: " Who really is my neighbor? "
E trust and answer im prayer.		Granted, on later occasions, Asa acted unwisely.
Even if Paul dey do the normal things for life, wetin be the main thing wey e do?		Though sharing in many normal aspects of life, on what was Paul focused?
Even with their mistake, still talk sey na all their mind dem use serve am.		Yet, viewed those kings as having a complete heart.
For to bless us, we need to get strong faith and dey do wetin e talk.		To receive the reward, we need to exercise full faith in and be obedient to his directions.
Get character wey go help you.		Develop spiritual qualities.
How angels take help Jesus after e baptize?		How did angels assist Jesus shortly after his baptism?
How preaching take dey make your faith strong?		How can the ministry help you to strengthen your faith?
How some brothers take treat Brother Diehl? Wetin help am leave the matter for hand?		What injustice did one brother experience in the congregation, and what qualities helped him to handle the matter properly?
I don read dem many times. "		I 've studied those brochures about a dozen times. "
I no dey fit control my temper. I dey vex anyhow sotey my friends come dey fear me.		My temper always used to get the better of me, so much so that even some of my friends feared my arrogant, violent reactions.
If dem do like that, dem go be like Nathan and Hushai wey no leave their friend when e make mistake. And dem go still be like Jesus wey ready to forgive.		That friend will be like Nathan and Hushai, who remained loyal even during bad times, and like Jesus, who was willing to forgive.
If you be papa or mama, you dey feel sometimes sey you no reach to fit train your pikin make dem be people wey get faith?		If you are a parent, do you at times feel unequal to the responsibility of teaching and molding your children to become men and women who have faith?
no dey tight hand.		is a generous God.
want make im servant dey forgive.		expects his servants to be forgiving.
Learn How to Control Yourself, Sept.		Do You Love Me More Than These?
Like Moses, Asa, and other people wey serve well, Nehemiah don already get the character to dey beg when e get problem.		Like Moses, Asa, and other faithful servants of, Nehemiah had already developed a pattern of relying on in prayer.
Like the Hebrew Christian, we go fit read about wetin God promise and support am.		As did the Hebrew Christians, we can read of and cooperate with that purpose.
Many times, we dey like to talk about wetin go give us for Paradise. But for this topic, we go talk about wetin go comot.		We often think about what will give us in Paradise, but in this article, we will focus on what he will take away.
Na ground we dey sleep and when morning reach, the brother and im wife dey prepare better food for us.		When invited to stay the night, we would sleep on the floor and enjoy a hearty breakfast the next day.
Na money problem, sickness, or people dey suffer you as you no gree leave?		ARE you dealing with trials, such as ill health, financial problems, or persecution?
Na so the brothers de preach for some areas that time.		In some places, that was how things were in those days.
Na wetin Bible talk sey go happen be that.		This transformation was beautifully foretold in a Bible prophecy.
No be just for pikin to know wetin dem tell am or to punish am when e do bad.		Much more is involved than just knowing the rules of the house or the punishment for misconduct.
Noah get?		Noah?
One thing be sey, dem no get faith again and dem no gree do wetin talk.		First, they had basically lost faith in and refused to listen to his voice.
Paul come be ' like mama wey dey take care of im children. ' And because of how e take dey help dem serve God, e still be like their papa. - Read 1 Thessalonians 2: 7, 11, 12. Who suppose dey teach children Bible?		He became like " a nursing mother " to those in the Thessalonian congregation; he was also like a spiritual father. - Read 1 Thessalonians 2: 7, 11, 12.
Problem for life de make plenty people no get peace		Anxieties of life rob many of peace
Rich man dey get money more more, and poor man dey poor more more.		And the gap between rich and poor is widening.
SONG: 89, 119		SONGS: 89, 119
See how their life come be!		It was sad to see how their lives turned out.
Since the world start, everything still dey as dem dey. ' ( 2 Pet.		Why, from the day our forefathers fell asleep in death, all things are continuing exactly as they were from creation 's beginning. "
So, e mean sey their pikin no go just wear any cloth wey dem like but dem go wear cloth wey go make people know sey dem dey serve.		This means not just what they like but also what will enable them to carry out their privilege of representing God.
So, e no suppose open mouth talk sey e want rule.		In rebelling against 's sovereignty, he and the first human couple acted arrogantly.
So e no de use all the time wey e get to get more things for this world.		I don 't try to cash in on my talents or attempt to climb the corporate ladder.
Some wey no be regular pioneer, fit come be regular pioneer.		In your later years, have you simplified your life to take up the full - time ministry?
THE vision wey Zechariah see, just be like drama! E see scroll wey dey fly, one woman wey dey inside container and two women wey dey fly for up. This two women get wing wey be like big bird own.		A FLYING scroll, a woman sealed inside a container, and two women soaring in the wind with wings like those of storks - such dramatic images are found in the book of Zechariah.
The husband fit dey feel sey the wife no get im time again.		Many a husband has felt left out because his wife is occupied with her duties toward their baby.
The time wey me, my papa and mama dey go convention for Wichita after 1940		With my parents, going to a convention in Wichita in the 1940 ' s
This one go make dem ' dey produce fruit wey go show for all the good work, ' especially for their preaching work.		This would enable them to continue " bearing fruit in every good work, " especially in the preaching of the good news.
This one na just some example of people wey don leave many things to do work.		These are just a few examples of the countless sacrifices made by servants of.
This topic talk about how we fit use wetin fit guide us for Bible for our life.		This article discusses how we can apply Bible principles in a practical way.
Today, many people no believe sey na God make us. As young person wey dey serve or wey dey learn about am, you fit dey think how you go take help person believe sey na God make us.		As a young servant of or as someone learning about Him, do you feel under pressure to conform to popular beliefs, such as evolution, rather than believe in a Creator?
We come go Puerto Rico go change our boat to engine boat, after we don preach for those island for five years.		After spending five years preaching on the islands, we sailed to Puerto Rico to exchange the schooner for a boat with engines.
We want thank our brothers and sisters wey dey try well well to make sure sey how dem dey dress and how dem dey behave, dey make people wey want know the truth come learn about. And this one dey make happy.		Commendation is in order for brothers and sisters whose appearance and fine conduct attract honesthearted people to the Bible 's lifesaving message and bring glory and joy to.
Wetin be some of the things wey people do to destroy Bible?		What are some things the Bible has had to endure?
Wetin elders and ministerial servants fit learn from Timothy?		Appointed men can learn what lessons from Timothy?
Wetin help am?		What helped him?
Wetin we fit do to make person mind come down?		What is one important way in which we can be a source of comfort to others?
Wetin we go do to help people wey need word wey go make dem strong?		How can we build up those needing encouragement?
Wetin you dey use your freedom do? You dey use am support work, or you dey use am do wetin you like?		Are you using your freedom of choice to advance the Kingdom work or your own interests?
When brother Nathan Knorr and Frederick Franz, wey dey among brothers wey dey direct the work that time, visit Portugal, dem show sey dem happy for wetin happen. We no go forget the meeting wey we do for where dem dey call Oporto and Lisbon wey 46,870 people come.		Brothers Nathan Knorr and Frederick Franz, from world headquarters, visited Portugal to share our joy at a historic meeting in Oporto and Lisbon with a combined attendance of 46,870.
Whether I join for the work or I no join, no go still make sure sey dem do the work? '		While it is gracious of to allow me to volunteer and participate, will he not provide whatever is needed to fulfill his Word no matter how much I personally choose to do in his service? '
Which things Satan get power to do?		What is the extent of his influence?
Who be the chariot and the people wey dey ride dem?		Who are the riders of the chariots, and what is their assignment?
Why? Because dem don destroy Jerusalem where dem dey worship before. ( Ps.		By then Jerusalem, their greatest reason to rejoice in, had been desolated.
Why Peter come do this kind serious thing wey fit scatter congregation?		What prompted a mature Christian elder to make such an error in judgment - one that could have divided the congregation?
Why e be sey wetin Adam and Eve choose, bring wahala?		Why did Adam and Eve 's choice prove to be disastrous?
Why e good to dey carry ourself down, and wetin we go gain?		Why should we make submission to our way of life, and how will this course benefit us?
Why e good to respect people and praise dem for wetin dem dey do?		Why should we show a measure of honor and respect to people in general?
Why we fit talk sey organization dey move?		Why can we say that 's chariot is on the move?
You fit enter trouble if you begin friend who no dey serve ( Check paragraph 10 )		Be aware of the danger of becoming unevenly yoked with an unbeliever ( See paragraph 10 )
Young people fit make congregation dey as one, and help the brothers and sisters make they shine their light.		How can young ones promote unity in the congregation and thus encourage others to let their light shine?
Cor. 7: 1; Eph.		Uncleanness.
True true, nobody wey dey judge matter well go talk sey na choose Herod to be leader.		Surely, no objective observer could conclude that Herod was chosen by to be leader.
Apostle Paul follow talk for this matter, e sey: ' All of us don sin and we no fit reach the level wey God don set for us, ' and ' wetin sin dey pay na death. '		The apostle Paul likewise stated: " All have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, " and " the wages sin pays is death. "
To show sey we happy as dey show us favor, we go continue to dey pray and study God Word so that our faith go strong. - Eph.		To show our appreciation for such undeserved kindness, we should keep strengthening our faith through prayer and study of God 's Word. - Eph.
This thing wey promise us come make us trust wetin Jesus talk for Matthew 6: 33.		We can link that inspired statement with what Jesus said about seeking first the Kingdom and God 's righteousness.
One day, one sister for Ireland come Kingdom Hall just when meeting want start.		A sister in Ireland once arrived at the Kingdom Hall just as the meeting was about to start.
no go leave that kind student wey get better mind; im spirit go help am.		s spirit will act on such a conscientious and appreciative Bible student.
Wetin fit cause trouble for us as we dey serve?		What prevents us from finding complete peace at this time?
Wetin go help the apostles continue to be friends with Jesus?		How could the apostles remain Jesus ' friends?
Wetin we ready to do about wicked people?		What should be our resolve regarding wickedness?
Wetin Christian dem don do to show sey dem like to dey gather together?		How have Christians shown that they are eager to meet together?
servant wey don marry suppose dey think about how im husband or wife dey feel and wetin e need.		Christian marriage partners should treat each other with tenderness.
Wetin fit make you feel like that?		What could cause you to feel that way?
How we dey feel when we see all the different different book wey give us?		How do we feel about our publications?
We dey sure sey God ' fit do over surplus of everything wey we beg am or think about. ' ( Eph.		We can have full confidence that God can do " more than superabundantly beyond all the things we ask or conceive. "
na our Friend and e love us. E dey help people wey ready to serve am, even if e dey hard dem to control theirself sometimes.		As a loving Friend, he warmly encourages sincere individuals who want to serve him but who have a hard time exercising self - control in some area of life.
And if we dey take time think this matter, e go make us dey respect dem. ( 1 Thess.		Reflecting on how they expend themselves deepens our " respect for those who are working hard " among us.
And no forget sey to get long throat na one way to serve another god.		The craving for such things can easily take the place of our love for God.
As time dey go, all this new things no come be anything to me again. I come dey enjoy the fine fine things wey dem dey teach us for Gilead.		However, those adjustments faded into nothing as I enjoyed the wonderful training at Gilead.
As you dey do like that, go continue to protect you forever!		As you do so, you can be certain that of armies will keep you safe and secure during the remainder of this system of things - and for eternity!
Bible help the people wey God choose.		God 's Word guided his representatives.
Bible no be book wey join two story wey no connect about Jew people and Christian.		The Bible is no mere collection of unrelated Jewish and Christian literature.
Bible tell us sey make we run go meet so that e go help us. If we do like that, we no need to let the bad thing wey we do over worry us.		Nevertheless, the Scriptures assure us that those who take refuge in do not need to feel overwhelmed by guilt.
But no rush end the " marriage. "		Yet, was not quick to give up on it.
But make dem dey use free mind do the work, and make e dey hungry dem to do am. Peter still talk sey make dem ' no dey carry theirself as oga for the people wey be God property, but make dem be example for all the sheep. ' ( 1 Pet.		The apostle Peter wrote: " Shepherd the flock of God under your care, serving as overseers, not under compulsion, but willingly before God; not for love of dishonest gain, but eagerly; not lording it over those who are God 's inheritance, but becoming examples to the flock. "
But one day, my teacher do wetin surprise me. E come dey call me fear fear to disgrace me.		To my surprise, one day my teacher tried to shame me by saying that I was a coward.
But papa and mama need to know the language wey go make the pikin understand wetin Bible talk and help am near more more. This one go help dem choose the congregation wey dem go join, whether na the congregation wey dey use the language of the new area, or the congregation wey dey use their language.		Parents should consider where the youths will best grasp the truth and progress spiritually, whether in association with a congregation that uses the local language or with one that uses the immigrant 's language.
Dem dey carry body down. Dem no dey let anybody treat dem like people wey dey act film or sing music.		As evidence of their humility, they refuse to let themselves be treated as celebrities.
Dem know sey na arrange marriage. E no want make husband and wife leave each other.		They realize that has yoked them together and that he wants them to " stick " to each other.
Dem really thank God for the way e dey bless dem!		How grateful they are for his blessing!
Diotrephes example show how person wey want be number one, and wey dey raise shoulder fit scatter congregation.		The case of Diotrephes illustrates the divisive influence that ambitious and arrogant individuals may try to exert in a congregation.
E HARD to see better friend.		I felt abandoned. "
E dey make me happy to know sey I go see am again!		What a happy thought!
E get sharp brain, and e sabi put ear well for wetin dem read for am. Na December 1992 e die.		What a joy it was to help him in that way until he finished his earthly course in December 1992!
E good make we get that last question for mind.		That last question is key.
E good to think about how we fit help different family for congregation.		Who are primarily responsible for teaching young ones the truth?
E sey: " If Bible talk sey person or something get another meaning, we go take am like that. But if e no talk so, we no go talk sey e get another meaning. "		Otherwise, we ought to be reluctant to assign an antitypical application to a certain person or account if there is no specific Scriptural basis for doing so. "
E sey: ' But, me and my wife know sey Bible no talk sey make person no marry. Na prayer and the trust wey we get for help us. '		He stated: " We knew, however, that getting married was not unscriptural, so we took refuge in prayer and put our trust in. "
E show sey e get strong mind, e no waste time, e run comot. - Gen.		Even so, rather than give in, he showed courage and took decisive action. - Gen.
E talk sey: " I dey really happy and I dey enjoy the love wey dey show me everyday. "		Instead, as she puts it, " I am really happy to be basking in 's love day in and day out. "
E travel go tell people about God Kingdom for different different city.		He went from city to city, telling people the good news about the Kingdom of God.
Even small children dey tell me sey make I give dem our tract.		Even small children respectfully ask me to give them a tract about the Bible.
Even though sey people wey Jesus teach happy to hear the better things wey dey come from im mouth, Jesus no let that one enter im head.		Although Jesus amazed his listeners with " gracious words, " he gave credit to his Teacher,.
Every day, we dey see sey dey do us well and e no dey tight hand.		As you can easily see, is kind and generous to humans every day.
Explain. As you don baptize, na wetin you do go make save you.		As a baptized Christian, your relationship with is not a ' family plan, ' such as some people have for cellular telephone service.
Federico talk sey: ' Wetin happen pain Antonio the way e pain me.		Federico recalls: " I could see that Antonio felt my pain.
Filip sey, " when the chance come out, " e be like come tell us sey: ' Make una dey go! ' "		When the opportunity presented itself, " says Filip, " it was as if told us: ' Go ahead! ' "
For 1959, organization send letter give me to tell me sey na branch office I go dey work.		In 1959, I received a letter informing me that I had been assigned to serve at the branch office.
For example, Christine dey ten years when e make up im mind to dey read story of people wey don serve well.		Christine was ten years old when she made up her mind to read regularly the life stories of faithful.
For example, around 55 million people die for only World War II.		For instance, some 55 million people were killed in World War II alone.
For example, if na wheat be the seed, which kind fruit e go produce when e grow?		But what kind of fruit is produced by a wheat stalk?
For example, make we think about the date wey e save Israel people from Egypt.		Consider his precise timing when he delivered the Israelites from Egypt.
For example, one brother wey im pikin kill imself talk sey: ' Before my pikin kill imself, first see am sey me and my wife go fit bear am?		One brother whose son committed suicide asked: ' Did assess in advance that my wife and I would be capable of enduring our son 's suicide?
For example, you fit tell your pikin make dem think am sey dem want go stay for one island wey far and dem go need to choose some people wey go stay with dem.		For example, you could ask your children to imagine that they are going to live on a remote island and will have to choose a number of people to live there with them.
How take dey bless us today?		What rewards do we receive from?
How apostle John take show us why e good to get faith?		How does the apostle John help us to understand the importance of exercising our faith?
How people wey lead for Israel take different from people wey lead for other country?		What contrast existed between the leaders of God 's people and those of pagan nations?
How we go show sey we dey do wetin talk about our meeting?		How does going to meetings show God that we want to obey him?
How young people go take gain when dem follow wetin dey Proverbs 16: 3?		How can young ones benefit from applying Proverbs 16: 3?
I come hide for back of one tree wey fall.		The rebels panicked and fled.
I do as if na me be the lawyer wey dey ask dem question. We know sey we no go win the case, but we see am as chance to preach.		We knew that we would lose the case, but we realized that a great witness would result.
I know sey dey pity person and e dey forgive. But because I no stop to dey think bad thing and I no see am as bad thing, I come feel sey God no go fit help me.		I know that is merciful and forgiving, but because I have this wrong desire and deep down I don 't hate it, I feel that I am unable to receive his help.
I still remember one time for field service wey we stop to buy food for one restaurant.		I remember another time when the service group stopped for a break at a fast - food restaurant.
If we obey and de preach as Jesus command us, na heavy load?		Will obeying Jesus ' command to preach become burdensome?
Word Go Last Forever, Sept.		Be Courageous. and Go to Work, " Sept.
Jesus still see dem as im friend.		To Jesus, the apostles were still his friends.
Like Jehoshaphat, sometimes we fit no know wetin to do and we fit dey fear. ( 2 Cor.		Sometimes we, like Jehoshaphat, may not know what to do, even being afraid.
Make we no ever pull the new character comot. For the next topic, we go see wetin this new character be and wetin go help us wear am like cloth.		In the following article, we will consider several aspects of the new personality that we need to make a permanent part of our figurative clothing.
Na im make one man wey im name na Vance Packard talk put for this matter. E sabi this matter reach ground.		It is insidious - like an invisible, odorless, poisonous gas - and it seeps into our consciousness.
Na only Zechariah see the eight vision.		Zechariah has had eight visions that he alone observed.
Na tailor e be, and e sabi the work well well. Because of this one, big big people come be im customer.		Because she was skilled in her craft, such professionals as doctors and teachers ordered clothes from her.
Na this one come make me sey I want give my life.		As a result, I too decided that I wanted to dedicate my life to.
Na wetin make Jesus tell im disciple sey e go show dem how to ' catch people, ' like fish.		Jesus indicated as much when he invited his disciples to become " fishers of men. "
Na young people go choose wetin dem want do for matter like school, work, and other things.		Adolescents have to make decisions about education, employment, and other matters.
No hurry choose wetin you want do. Sitdown think the matter so that you go fit choose well.		When you face an important issue, give yourself the time you need to act wisely.
One husband and wife for Bermuda talk sey when anything dey worry dem, dem dey follow their pikin pray make help dem. Dem go still tell their pikin make dem pray by theirself.		When a couple in Bermuda have anxious moments, they pray with their children that guide them, and they encourage their children to pray on their own.
One time wey we want go convention, we no get transport money. One brother accept say e go buy our car so that we go get money go convention.		One summer, we needed funds in order to travel to the convention, and a brother agreed to buy our 1950 Ford in order to make it possible.
Proverbs 12: 25 talk sey: " Things wey dey worry person for mind dey make am weak but better word dey make am happy. "		Anxiety in a man 's heart weighs it down, but a good word cheers it up.
Slave many well well for the place wey Rome dey rule.		At one point, some 30 percent of the population were slaves.
Small time, dem come make am elder.		Shortly thereafter, he was appointed an elder.
So, make we no stop to let wetin we learn for Bible help us dey change our life so that we fit near more more.		Therefore, let us never give up in allowing God 's Word to keep transforming us and bringing us into a closer relationship with.
Some days before dem come arrest Jesus for garden of Gethsemane, Jesus tell im disciple dem sey make dem dey pray.		A few days before the incident in the garden of Gethsemane, Jesus told those same disciples to make supplication to.
The angel call am ' special person ' or person wey dem respect well well. ( Dan. 10: 8, 11, 18, 19; ftn. )		That angel called Daniel a " very precious, " or " highly esteemed, " man!
The elders wey dey Takuya congregation come tell am sey make e call dem anytime wey e happen again.		Elders in Takuya 's congregation invited him to call them whenever he experienced relapses.
The one wey e surprise this husband and wife be say, one man come meet them and give them flowers. And e thank them for the work wey them de do.		And to the couple 's surprise, a man stopped by their witnessing cart, gave them a bouquet of flowers, and thanked them for the work they do.
The wahala wey Noah face.		Challenges that Noah faced.
The wahala wey we dey face today just be like wetin happen for prophet Micah time.		The conditions we face today are similar to those in the days of the prophet Micah.
This one don make us free and we get joy.		It allows for freedom and promotes joy.
This one show say we de follow wetin Jesus talk for Matthew 10: 11 - 13. E talk say: " When wuna enter any house, greet the people.		In this way, we follow Jesus ' instructions for the ministry recorded at Matthew 10: 11 - 13, where he advised: " When you enter the house, greet the household.
This vision go don make their mind come down! Why?		What a relief this vision must have brought them - a guarantee that would keep pure worship clean!
Today, we de preach so that everybody go fit learn about the kind life wey don promise us. want make everybody get life.		Today, we preach the Kingdom message to give people an opportunity to learn about God 's will for mankind.
True true, many years fit pass and person still dey try to comot bad thing for mind.		Certain tendencies might persist for years.
Two of dem do wetin good for eye, but na only Asa use all im mind serve. ( 2 Chron.		Both Judean kings did what was right in the eyes of, but Asa did so with a complete heart.
We must comot hand kpatakpata from the bad thing wey we do. We still need to comot hand from anything wey fit make us do bad thing.		We must completely abandon the sinful course, fleeing not only from serious sin but also from the lesser sins that often lead to gross wrongdoing.
Wetin I dey do when temptation come? My faith for don strong pass as e be before? '		Have I progressed beyond basics to maturity, becoming full - grown as a Christian? '
Wetin e read really sweet am well well.		He was very impressed by what he read.
Wetin endurance mean?		What is endurance?
Wetin go help us pull our old character comot?		How can one succeed in stripping off the old personality?
Wetin help this brother?		How has this brother coped?
Wetin the priest do surprise John. So John come tell am sey, ' I no go ever enter any Catholic church again. '		John was so shocked by the priest 's behavior that he told the priest, " I will never set foot in a Catholic church again. "
Which freedom Adam and Eve get?		What freedom did Adam and Eve enjoy?
Which other thing we fit do to support?		How else can we show our support?
Which other things we fit do to make our friendship with God strong pass before?		What more can we do to cultivate it?
Why e good as Paul warn Christians wey dey go heaven sey make dem no ' dey put mind for the flesh '?		Why was it appropriate to warn even anointed Christians about walking " according to the flesh "?
Why we fit talk sey love ' dey join everything together to make am complete '?		How does love serve as " a perfect bond of union " when problems develop in a marriage?
For Luke chapter one and two, Luke use Mary name reach 12 times. But e use Joseph name only 3 times.		In the first two chapters of Luke 's Gospel, Mary 's name is mentioned 12 times, but Joseph 's, only 3.
Many elders today dey do like Nehemiah.		He was personally involved in rebuilding Jerusalem 's walls.
Wetin go happen if we take wetin we promise play?		How serious is it to make a vow to God?
Wetin we go talk about for the next topic?		What will we discuss in the next article?
Wetin you think sey make Asa trust imself and Ben - hadad?		Why might Asa have relied on humans when Baasha came up against Judah?
Make ear no hear sey ' we don forget the love wey we first get ' for.		May it never be said of us that ' we left the love we had at first. '
Na get sense pass, and na im get power pass. Since e fit control ice block and snow, you no think sey e fit help you handle any problem?		Our all - wise, all - powerful God, the one who controls the hail and the snow, can help you to surmount any obstacles that you encounter.
You dey do am the way organization tell us?		Are you following such suggestions from 's organization?
After I learn the language finish for one year, I come be circuit overseer.		After studying Portuguese for a year, I was appointed to be a circuit overseer.
All this public talk wey dem advertise that time really help people. E teach dem the truth wey dey Bible. Na the same thing public talk still dey do today.		Advertised public talks - forerunner of the Public Meeting - provided excellent opportunities to present Scriptural truths.
Amebo or aproko be like fuel wey dem add join fire ( Check paragraph 14 )		Negative speech may cause a problem to get out of control ( See paragraph 14 )
And after I don preach to dem, e dey make me happy! "		And afterward, I always feel great! "
And e fit even make dem listen to our preaching wey fit save their life.		As a result, others may be more likely to pay attention to our lifesaving message.
And we no fit do anything to control when ' great tribulation ' go start. ( Matt.		And we cannot do anything to speed up the start of the " great tribulation. "
Around 1990, na Russia language we take dey do our meeting. And na im dem take dey write our book dem.		In the early 1990 ' s, our publications as well as the meetings were in the Russian language.
As we comot for New York, e remain small make we cry. But as we meet our brothers for airport wey dey Nairobi, we come dey happy.		We felt a lump in our throat as we left New York, but how that lump turned to joy when we were met by our brothers at the airport in Nairobi!
Brother Rutherford sey make we arrange convention for different different place for some part of United States and send brothers wey go give talk, to help the brothers and sisters continue to get strong faith. '		Brother Rutherford requested that we arrange conventions in several cities in the western United States and send speakers to try to encourage the friends as much as possible. "
But as we dey grow, we no come dey follow wetin dey Bible because wetin dey our mind pass na things wey young people like.		My siblings and I respected the Bible but grew up distracted by youthful pleasures.
But the good news wey we dey carry go give people na better thing. E fit save us and people wey listen to us.		Although we are simply imperfect earthen vessels, the message we preach can bring everlasting life to us and to those who listen to us.
But this kind life no dey make person really happy.		Such people can never be truly happy.
But wetin we dey do pass na strong strong work.		But most of the time, we just did hard work.
But when the woman come back from convention, e come feel sey no need for am to go that kind place wey fit make am do wetin God no like, so e no go.		When she returned home from the convention, however, she felt that in her case, it was better to avoid even putting herself in a situation that could be spiritually dangerous, so she did not go.
Dem show sey na only dem dey worship. Dem no gree chop the food wey dirty for God eye and dem no gree worship the image wey Nebuchadnezzar make.		They demonstrated their exclusive devotion to not only by abstaining from eating foods that were unclean but also by refusing to bow down to Nebuchadnezzar 's golden image.
Dem tell me better word wey make me strong. And no matter how the elders dey busy reach, some of dem must ask me how I dey after meeting.		After every congregation meeting, no matter how busy they were, at least one of them would ask how I was.
Dey Show Real Love, Oct.		Joseph of Arimathea, Oct.
E be like sey Babylon people want know about the sign. So, dem send people go ask Hezekiah about am. ( 2 Ki.		Apparently, the princes of Babylon sent emissaries to inquire about that sign.
E do like that so that people go know sey na teach am everything. - John 8: 28.		He modestly spoke that way so that his hearers would know that what he said was coming from and was not the product of his own intellect or wisdom. - John 8: 28.
E don tey wey you dey find work but you never see?		Have you been unemployed for a long time and unable to find a job despite all the efforts you make to find one?
E go dey show im wife love and get better mind for am.		If he reflects the fruitage of the spirit, being loving and kind, he will earn her deep respect.
E remain small make dem kill am for the war.		In the battle, Jehoshaphat narrowly avoided being killed.
E sey: " The person wey dey really check the correct law wey dey give freedom, and e continue to follow am, go happy for wetin e dey do. "		He wrote: " The one who peers into the perfect law that belongs to freedom and continues in it. will be happy in what he does. "
E talk sey: " When Witness come my house, I no dey give dem face, I go do like sey I no see dem.		When 's called on me, " he recalls, " I would just turn away and ignore them as if they did not exist.
E want make we happy, and e go still give us life wey no go end for paradise.		Does that fact undermine the value of our salvation or imply that does not really care for us?
Even when e no easy, go help us as we de preach. ( Phil. 4: 13 ) de answer our prayer and Jesus na our friend. This one na big blessing.		How grateful we are to be blessed with answered prayers and friendship with Jesus!
For 1958, dem form one congregation for Sokuluk, and na im be the first congregation for Kyrgyzstan.		Sokuluk is where the first congregation in Kyrgyzstan was formed in 1958.
For example, e get one time wey im disciples preach well well. After dem preach finish, e come tell dem sey: ' Make una come, make only us go one corner go rest small. ' - Mark 6: 31, 32.		Following one particularly intense witnessing campaign, he told his disciples: " Come, you yourselves, privately into an isolated place and rest up a little. " - Mark 6: 31, 32.
For example, one husband and wife wey dey serve for one country for Asia talk something about JW Broadcasting. Dem sey: " We dey preach for one small city.		For example, regarding the provision of JW Broadcasting, one couple serving in a country in Asia wrote: " Our assignment is in a small city.
For example, one sister fit get plan to use one day go preach.		For example, a sister knows that she has the responsibility to preach the good news.
For some culture, if man keep beard beard wey clean, dem fit no see am as bad thing. And e fit no disturb our preaching work for that area.		In some cultures, a neat beard may be acceptable and may not detract from the Kingdom message.
Holy spirit help dem understand Bible.		With the help of holy spirit, they grasped Scriptural truths.
How Bible take get chapter and verse?		How did Bible chapter and verse numbering come about?
How go take comot the bad things wey people dey do and bad condition wey dey this earth?		How will rid the earth of wrong activities and distressful conditions?
How we fit do am?		In what ways?
How we fit find this new things?		How do we do that?
How we fit pity people like when dem want make we forgive dem?		How may we imitate 's mercy when others need our forgiveness?
How we fit take help person wey no believe sey God dey?		How could we reason with someone who claims that there is no Creator?
How wetin we need take different from wetin we want?		What difference is there between what we need and what we want?
If we dey control ourself, other people go gain from us and we go be friend.		The self - control that results is fundamental to your enjoying everyday life in God 's favor and to sharing good things with your loved ones.
If young people love and dem learn to do wetin e like, dem fit help their family.		Young ones who learn to love the true God and to follow his counsel can become a source of comfort in a family.
Instead, e happy for wetin do for am. - 1 Sam. 2: 1, 2; read Psalm 61: 1, 5, 8.		Her heart rejoiced in. - 1 Sam. 2: 1, 2; read Psalm 61: 1, 5, 8.
Jesus give us better advice for Matthew 6: 34 ( read ). E sey: ' No worry at all. '		At Matthew 6: 34 ( read ), we find Jesus ' profound advice: " Never be anxious. "
Jew people hate people wey no be Jew, but Christian for the apostle time no be like that. How we take know?		First - century Christians learned to overcome the deep - seated prejudices that prevailed among the Jews.
Joy na how person dey feel when good thing happen to am, or when e dey expect good thing.		It has been defined as " the emotion excited by the acquisition or expectation of good. "
Like Jesus, how you fit dey put mind for the good things wey you fit get if you endure?		How can you imitate Jesus in focusing on the rewards of endurance?
Louis talk sey: " For October 2014 we go Bible School for Christian Couples * for France.		In October 2014, we attended the Bible School for Christian Couples * in France, " says Louis.
Make dem quick do wetin dem tell dem.		They should be quick to obey.
Me and my wife still dey the branch office for Philippines wey dey where dem dey call Quezon City.		Janet and I continue to serve together at the Philippines branch office in Quezon City.
Na different different kind of people dey organization, and na draw dem come im side.		In our congregations are found all sorts of people whom has drawn to him.
Na serious matter to know whether dey rule well. But that one no mean sey, no get am for mind to save us.		In acknowledging the importance of 's sovereignty, we are not belittling our salvation or our worth in his eyes.
Na so Eunice take pack comot for house when e dey 17 years. E come dey stay with one Witness family.		At the age of 17, Eunice did leave home, and a local Witness family kindly took her into their care.
Na true sey the four king wey we talk about for our last topic use all their mind serve, but dem still do some things wey no like.		The four Judean kings who were considered in the preceding article served with a complete heart. Still, they made some serious mistakes.
No be just some people go select to enjoy the better things wey e get for mind to do. Wetin Jesus talk show sey that one na true. E sey: ' Anybody wey dey do wetin God want, na im be my brother and sister and mama. '		s generosity is not limited to a few privileged people, for Jesus said: " Whoever does the will of God, this one is my brother and sister and mother. "
No hide bad thing and comot hand.		Confess and abandon secret sins.
One husband and wife talk sey: ' Since we start to read this brochure, we don dey enjoy our marriage pass before. '		One couple said: " Since we have been studying this brochure, our marriage has been happier than ever. "
One thing wey I still like to do that time, na to arrange flower wey dey inside the church and I dey dress Mary image and the " saint " image.		I also liked to arrange the flowers in the church and dress the images of Mary and the " saints. "
Satan catch some angels, even as they don live with for heaven for many years.		For aeons, the angels who joined Satan served in the very presence of God.
So, to make our faith strong, we dey study Bible together any time wey we fit; we still dey sing and pray.		So to strengthen ourselves, we got together whenever we could to study the Bible, sing spiritual songs, and pray.
So if any of dem wey don give im life to God come do wetin Bible no talk, God no go bless am and the person fit no get life.		Hence such members could not willingly and conscientiously engage in the taking of the life of human beings. "
So now, the people wey this verse talk sey go happy na the same people. Na this people this verse talk sey " their God na. "		As a result, in both instances such happiness applies to the same people - those " whose God is! "
So this one fit help the person wey dem disfellowship see sey wetin e do bad well well. And that one fit make am repent. - Acts 3: 19.		And because God disciplines to the proper degree, disfellowshipping can impress on the wrongdoer the seriousness of his sin and move him to repentance. - Acts 3: 19.
Some group of people drag dem go market. Before dem know wetin dey happen, dem don arrange court to judge their matter.		Without any warning, they had been dragged by a mob to the marketplace to stand before a hastily convened court.
Some wey never born, fit born.		Have you begun raising children?
Sometimes, we fit change wetin we first choose after we think am again.		There are times when we will do well to reconsider a decision and perhaps change it.
Teach your pikin about when any chance come ( Check paragraph 10 )		Teach your children Bible truth whenever possible ( See paragraph 10 )
The brother come remind im wife sey na so e still talk when dem pack go new area two years ago.		He reminded her that she had said exactly the same thing two years earlier - the last time they moved.
The main thing wey make am no go work na because e want travel or e want carry im family go jolly.		His real reason for not being at work is so that he can get a head start on a trip or so that he can take his family to the beach.
The two sister come later go the farm back after three days, but the farmer no even know sey dem comot.		The two sisters returned to the farm three days later, but the farmer had not even noticed that they were gone.
This brother and im wife come dey use their free time ask each other question from Bible.		He and his wife began passing time by quizzing each other on Bible subjects.
This one fit confuse dem.		At times they may feel overwhelmed by the opportunities and decisions that confront them.
This one mean sey na part - time work I go do.		That meant working part - time.
This sense de help us treat everybody the same way. E de help us make we de make peace with people too.		As servants of, though, we seek the wisdom from above, which is impartial and promotes peace.
This work help me to fit trust, and I start to think sey I go fit pioneer for another country.		Pioneering was teaching me to lean on, and I began to feel more comfortable with the idea of serving overseas.
To help other people, we go need to use our power and we go ready to do wetin go favor dem, even if e no go favor us.		Giving of ourselves is not always easy.
We get this kind character?		How deeply are we affected by such biased views?
We go answer this question for the next topic.		The next article will help to answer these questions.
We go answer this question for the next topic. And we go still talk about how papa and mama suppose see baptism.		In the next article, we will consider these matters and discuss how Christian parents can maintain a balanced view of baptism.
Wetin dem talk teach us sey we fit do more for our preaching work, even when problem dey. If you copy their example, you go see sey wetin promise im servant for Bible na true. E sey: " I go make you strong, yes, I go help you. " ( Isa.		As the expressions of faith from these need - greaters show, when we strive to overcome an obstacle to expand our ministry, we experience in a very personal way the truthfulness of 's promise to his servants: " I will fortify you, yes, I will help you. "
Wetin go happen if we get ' the peace wey God dey give '?		What will result when we attain " the peace of God "?
Wetin go help us pull our old character comot?		How can we succeed in stripping off the old personality?
Wetin show sey God arrange the congregation for the apostle time well?		What shows that the first - century Christian congregation was organized?
Wetin suppose make Jesus disciple dem do this work?		What should be the motive for doing the preaching work?
Wetin this one mean?		What does that mean?
What of other brothers and sisters wey I no too know, or wey no fit pay me back? I still dey help dem? '		Or do I instead look for ways to be generous toward brothers and sisters whom I do not know well or who have nothing with which to repay me? '
When Paul reach where the boy dey, e come hold am.		What a profound impact that would have had on eyewitnesses!
When you want choose wetin you go do, na anything wey you like you go just do?		When you make personal decisions, do you simply do what feels right to you?
Which special peace we fit get?		Depending on what we set our mind on, what special peace can we enjoy?
Who go give dem food chop? Who go take care of dem?		Who will feed them and care for them?
YOU read Romans 8: 15 - 17 for Memorial time?		IN CONNECTION with the annual commemoration of Jesus ' death, have you read Romans 8: 15 - 17?
You Fit Know Where to Do Reach Even When E Hard, Jan.		Why Modesty Still Matters, Jan.
paragraph 7 ) Jesus tell dem sey ( 1 ) Make dem preach the correct message.		paragraph 7 ) Among the points Jesus covered were the following: ( 1 ) Preach the right message.
We pray sey make continue to help you bear wetin happen.		May sustain you at this time of such great loss.
The big shield " wey Roman soldier de use, de cover e body from shoulder go reach knee. The shield na four corner.		The large shield " carried by a Roman legionnaire was rectangular and covered him from his shoulders to his knees.
Faith na wetin dey make person believe sey e don see wetin e dey wait for. ' - HEB.		Faith is the assured expectation of what is hoped for. " - HEB.
Wetin make us different?		What, though, makes us so different from any other organization?
Our organization go continue to dey grow and shine until only good people wey no get sin and wey go always dey happy, go full this world. Dem go dey praise forever.		Our spiritual paradise will continue to grow and to flourish until the whole earth is filled with perfect, righteous, and happy humans to the eternal praise of 's name.
[CONTENT_REMOVED]		See opening picture. )
True - true, my life get poor beginning, but for the ending, I don get plenty blessing. This one pass anything wey I fit ever think about!		I certainly feel that my life may have had a poor start materially, but the ending is spiritually rich, far richer than I could ever have imagined!
[CONTENT_REMOVED]		Compare Ezekiel 28: 17. )
Wetin don dey happen to marriage since Adam and Eve do wetin no like?		What has happened to marriage since the rebellion of Adam and Eve?
After about 2,000 years from apostle Paul time, for 2014, we come arrange preaching for Turkey.		Some 2,000 years later, in 2014, Turkey was once again the focus of a special preaching campaign.
Which peace we get now?		What peace can we enjoy now?
Apart from that one, we fit use our fine character praise.		In addition, we can glorify by our Christian conduct.
Wetin Paul talk before e talk wetin dey 2 Corinthians 3: 17?		What led up to Paul 's statement found at 2 Corinthians 3: 17?
We get sin for body. Na im make we need to continue to wear the new character. Make we no pull am comot.		Putting on and keeping on the new personality is an ongoing process for all Christians until we are able to do so to the full.
After some years, the pikin come die.		Some years later, the boy died.
After two weeks, dem carry my senior brother wey im name na Bogdan, go one camp for one city.		Two weeks later my older brother, Bogdan, arrived in a camp in the nearby city of Angarsk.
And the way you dey see things fit don change.		For example, if you were baptized as a preteen, you likely will face new feelings and pressures as you enter and pass through adolescence.
Angela na another wise sister wey I meet when I still dey Bethel. For April 1958, I come marry Angela and we don dey together now for 58 years.		Thus, while serving at Bethel, I met another wise one, whom I have now walked with for 58 years.
Another thing be sey, whether we be brother or sister, all of us get plenty work to do for God work. - 1 Cor.		In addition to this, whether we are brothers or sisters, we certainly have " plenty to do in the work of the Lord. " - 1 Cor.
Anybody wey carry imself up, God go bring am down, and anybody wey carry imself down, God go carry am up. '		Whoever exalts himself will be humbled, and whoever humbles himself will be exalted. "
Apart from that one, other better things dey. Their brain go sharp and dem go fit dey do things well with people.		Being bilingual sharpens your children 's thinking ability and enhances their social skills.
As I dey there, my commanders send me go army school because they think say I get the gift to direct people.		While I was serving there, my superiors sent me to a Noncommissioned Officers Academy, thinking that I had natural leadership abilities.
As we dey near God more more and dey follow the advice wey dey Bible everytime, we go see sey na better thing get for mind for us.		As we draw close to him and grow in love for his Word, we come to trust his judgment.
Bible talk sey e go happen " when Christ dey around. "		It would occur " during his presence. "
Brothers and sisters use one week take clean the stadium.		Publishers spent a week cleaning the stadium beforehand.
But e still dey make sure sey e give us things wey we need to survive.		What is required of those who hope to benefit from God 's saving power?
But for other area the visitor and the people wey e visit dey enjoy the same thing.		In some cultures, unexpected guests are welcome; in others, prior arrangements are preferred.
But mind still dey judge some of dem. Dem think sey no go fit forget the bad thing wey dem do.		Some of God 's people who sinned grievously but who repented have felt " imprisoned " by their guilt, even feeling that will forever view them as tainted by gross wrongdoing.
But na good things e talk about me and e show sey e want really help me. "		Instead, he remained positive and expressed a sincere desire to help.
But na pretend e dey pretend.		Consider some examples of counterfeit love.
But no be your papa and mama make you be friend. You promise to serve and you baptize, na this one make you be im friend.		But when you dedicated yourself to and got baptized, you showed that you had come into a privileged relationship with him.
But remember sey wetin matter pass no be how person house fine reach. The main thing be sey, the house clean, and dem arrange am well.		Remember, of prime importance about a home is, not that it is fancy, but that it is orderly, clean, and inviting.
But the Samaritan people no gree give them place. So James and John begin vex. They say they want make fire come from heaven and destroy the whole village.		The Samaritans refused to receive them, so James and John angrily suggested calling down fire from heaven to destroy the entire village.
But when we see the better thing wey dey come from correction, e go make us value am, and e go make us know sey really love us.		We build appreciation for discipline when we experience its benefits, which confirm God 's love for us.
Daniel dey always talk sey na dey help am do the things wey e do.		Was God 's confidence in Daniel misplaced?
E come see sey e dey carry shoulder. And e come know sey im problem na how e dey see the matter. E start to change, e no waste time.		After acknowledging that he had been blinded by a ' rafter ' of pride and that his critical attitude was his problem, he began to change quickly for the better.
E come tell dem some things wey dem go dey do to show sey dem dey holy.		Then he gave examples of being holy.
E dey come meeting for Kingdom Hall, but e no want mek anybody study Bible with am.		He was attending meetings at the Kingdom Hall, but he did not want to have a Bible study.
E go mark the great crowd as sheep for great tribulation.		The great crowd will receive their mark when they are judged as sheep during the great tribulation.
E love and e ready to follow im law, even if e mean sey e go die.		On the other hand, Naboth valued his relationship with even more than life itself.
E talk sey, wey be their God, no go fit save dem.		Even your God, can do nothing for you. '
E tell them why they go continue to preach.		He gave them reasons for carrying out the preaching work.
Even though sey na Peter use help people wey no be Jew to be Christian, Peter come dey fear wetin people go talk.		Peter gave in to the snare of fear of man.
Even when our daughter Gulsayra, dey 12 years, e like to dey preach to people wey dey pass for road.		Our daughter Gulsayra - then just 12 years old - enjoyed speaking to passersby on the street and telling them about the Bible.
Even with that one, who promise must do wetin e promise. Why?		Vows are made voluntarily, of one 's own free will.
Fear catch me when they change my assignment to circuit overseer.		I was nervous about becoming a circuit overseer.
For 1929 when dem build Bethel for Mexico City, e come be like sey things go better.		The opening of a branch office in Mexico City in 1929 seemed promising.
For Jesus apostle time and our time, how the group wey God dey use direct im people take let.		In the first century and today, how have those taking the lead among God 's people been.
For Quetta, I meet one special pioneer, e name na George Singh.		In Quetta, I met George Singh, a special pioneer in his mid - 20 ' s.
For apostle time, e get two women wey their name na Euodia and Syntyche.		Euodia and Syntyche may have had distinctly different ways or personalities.
For example, e talk about some women wey their pikin die but because of their faith, God raise the pikin come life again.		For example, the apostle mentions women of faith who lost their sons in death but later received them back by resurrection.
For example, some of our old brothers and sisters dey try well well make dem fit dey go meeting and preaching every time.		For instance, some of our dear elderly ones make great effort to attend and share in meetings and the ministry regularly.
For example, when God choose David to be king, Jonathan wey be King Saul pikin no jealous David.		He was not jealous when David was appointed heir to the throne.
For six month, I just dey travel go teach for different different place wey dem dey do the school, but I no carry my wife.		For six months, I was assigned to travel to one school after another - but without Mary.
For the day wey person want baptize, wetin e good for am to dey think about?		What is it appropriate to contemplate on the day of one 's baptism?
How the things wey organization don give us fit help us, and how e don take help you?		What are some benefits from using the tools that are available, and how have you benefited?
How you fit gain from the holy spirit wey God go give you?		How will you benefit as God responds when you ask for holy spirit?
I start to see sey no be wetin I want suppose be the main thing.		I began to see that my feelings are not the main thing.
If we want know the answer, we go ask people wey don dey do the work.		A good way to get answers to such questions is, of course, to talk to these brothers and sisters.
Instead, follow wetin Bible talk for the book of Psalm. E sey: ' Sing to! '		Instead, obey the clear direction from the inspired psalmist: " Sing to! "
talk sey if we dey read im Word, we go ' get mind and dey strong. ' Fear no go kill us. - Josh.		specifically linked reading his Word with being " courageous and strong " and not being " struck with terror or fear. " - Josh.
Jesus tell us sey dey ' give holy spirit to people wey beg am. '		Jesus stated that gives " holy spirit to those asking him. "
Like dem, many things fit make us fear as we dey serve.		We too face circumstances that require courage.
Make we ask some of dem wey do this work for Madagascar how don take help dem. Madagascar na the fourth island wey big pass for this earth.		To find out how opened the way for some of them, we will visit Madagascar, the fourth largest island on earth.
Make we dey find truth the way person dey dig ground find better things. If we do like that, go help us learn many new things.		will help us to collect precious new truths into our " treasure store " if we search for them as for hidden treasures.
Make we remember sey no just be one god wey high pass or wey get power pass other god dem, but na im be the true God.		We must bear in mind that is not just one among many gods; nor is he even the highest and most powerful among them.
Many of us don dey get better result from this kind preaching and e dey sweet us.		Many are having a very effective and rewarding share in such work.
Many times, dem dey thank us sey we come preach to dem.		They often thank us for visiting them.
Many times, na something dey cause am. "		In many cases, there is an underlying issue. "
Many times, our mind no dey settle because we fit dey think about how to get money and property.		Today, our anxiety is often related to concern over money and material possessions.
Na different different way this people take get wetin dem contribute.		Of course, the sources of such donations varied.
Na im make am talk sey: ' I don already tell wetin I go do, and I no fit change am. '		Jephthah said: " I have opened my mouth to, and I am unable to turn back. "
Na this one make am talk sey e dey sorry for imself. But e later talk sey: ' I dey thank God through Jesus Christ wey be our Lord! ' ( Rom.		After Paul expressed his misery for failing to obey perfectly, he exclaimed: " Thanks to God through Jesus Christ our Lord! "
Na true sey we face some problem.		Of course, there were some hardships.
Na when dem dey build the temple for Jerusalem again, dem talk wetin dey Zechariah 8: 9, 13 ( read am ). But wetin dey that verse fit still help us today.		The words of Zechariah 8: 9, 13 ( read ) were spoken while the temple in Jerusalem was being rebuilt, and those words are very fitting for us.
Number four important reason why we de preach na because we love our neighbor.		Here is another important reason for continuing with our preaching work: We preach because we love our neighbor.
Or na because dem no know everything wey dem suppose know, or dem no think well before dem do wetin dem do?		Or were these individuals simply unaware of all the facts, or were they caught off guard?
Our family people fit no like as we dey serve. Dem fit make life hard for us.		The negative response of unbelieving relatives to the truth can make life difficult for 's people.
People fit fear or vex when they see person wey they no know for their door. But when you behave well, and you explain why you come, e fit make them relax.		Still, your positive, friendly manner as you explain why you are there can often allay a householder 's concern or ease his irritation.
Rehoboam follow their advice, and e decide say e go show the people pepper.		Following their advice, Rehoboam decided to treat the people harshly.
SONG: 38, 31		SONGS: 38, 31
Some of dem don even baptize. " - Check Acts 2: 7, 8.		Some have progressed to baptism. " - Compare Acts 2: 7, 8.
Sometimes, when Bible talk sey person hand don weak, e fit mean sey the person tire to do something, or the person no get hope again. ( 2 Chron. 15: 7, ftn.; Heb.		To let the figurative hands drop down has at times been used to describe someone who is discouraged, disheartened, or without hope.
The love wey e get for people dey make am think about how e go take teach dem God word, how dem dey feel, and wetin dem need.		He showed loving consideration for others ' spiritual, emotional, and physical needs.
The next day, after we comot from house go the Watchtower Educational Center wey dey Patterson, Linda call me sey my mama don die.		The day after we left for the Watchtower Educational Center in Patterson, Linda called to tell us that Mother had died.
The topic wey dey the 1937 Informant talk sey make publishers for Britain try get one million hours for 1938.		The 1937 Informant article set a challenging goal for 1938: One million hours!
The truth be sey, e hard for me to comot all this things wey dey worry me for mind. "		Really, my own worries were the greatest obstacle I had to overcome. "
The way dem dey do things come make me dey ask myself why I no like dem.		Their behavior moved me to examine the basis for my prejudice.
This kind question fit help our pikin to get the ' power to think ' and help dem get faith. - Prov.		Such comments, along with good questions, can help a child to develop " thinking ability " and to build faith in God. - Prov.
This na the first place wey e travel go. E enter one ship wey dem dey call City of Chicago. Around evening time, the ship come near one town wey dem dey call Queenstown.		Aboard the City of Chicago, he viewed the sunset over the approaching coastline at Queenstown and may well have remembered his parents ' description of their homeland.
This one go make us happy because even though sey sin dey our body, we fit still be friend. - Read 1 Timothy 1: 15.		Thanks to the ransom, then, we can enjoy a friendship with even though we are in an imperfect state. - Read 1 Timothy 1: 15.
This one na just one of the many things wey dey make Jesus enemy dem dey vex for am and im disciples.		This was just one of many issues in which Jesus ' enemies found fault with him and his disciples.
To ' dey put mind for the spirit ' no mean sey person no go dey talk or do anything apart from Bible matter and the hope wey e get.		He does not need to think and talk of nothing other than the Bible or his love for God and his hope for the future.
Today, many people dey do like Isaiah. Dem ready to do work, no matter how the work be.		spirit in taking up challenging assignments in 's service.
True true, no dey fail people wey dey serve am.		Indeed, never disappoints those who zealously serve him.
True true, e fit no easy for some papa and mama to sabi their children new language well.		Realistically, it may not be possible for some immigrant parents to become fluent in their children 's new language.
We go come fit be like Peter wey talk sey: ' Lord, you know sey I love you. '		May our choices in life reflect that we share the sentiments of Peter, who told Jesus: " Lord, you know I have affection for you. "
Wetin come happen after e don beg am finish?		With what result?
Wetin e do correct.		His response was measured and entirely fitting.
Wetin we fit do so that we no go copy the bad character wey people for this world get?		How may we avoid being influenced by those who display ungodly qualities?
Wetin we go gain if we dey respect and praise people?		What are some benefits of giving honor to those to whom it is due?
What if dem disfellowship your husband, wife, pikin or friend and you no like am?		What if your marriage mate, your son or daughter, or your close friend is disfellowshipped and you do not agree with the decision?
What of you?		What about you?
When young people use their life take serve, dem go gain.		Young people in the congregation benefit themselves if they focus on pleasing.
Whether dem treat us well or dem no treat us well, aproko no go change anything. - w17.04, p.		Whether we are right or wrong, engaging in hurtful speech will never improve matters. - w17.04, p.
Which question dem we go still talk about?		What questions remain to be answered?
Why Bible no too talk about this enemy before the Messiah come?		Why was little said about our enemy prior to the arrival of the Messiah?
Woman wey dey serve suppose to dey respect im husband whether e deserve am or no deserve am. - Gal.		Of course, a Christian wife should show respect for her husband whether he earns it or not. - Gal.
Yes, we fit talk sey true true Bible na book wey everybody suppose read.		The Bible truly is a book for everyone.
You dey use jw.org for preaching?		Have you been using jw.org in your ministry and in your family worship?
You fit still use your mind do other things for congregation. You fit join clean and repair Kingdom Hall.		Also, you can offer to do things in the congregation, such as helping to clean and maintain the Kingdom Hall.
E get up leave everything wey e dey do, come follow [ Jesus ].		Leaving everything behind, he rose up and began to follow [ Jesus ].
I dey put your word for my mind. ' - PS.		In my heart I treasure up your saying. " - PS.
As e be, we no fit force people listen to the ' good news about God Kingdom. '		In the meantime, we cannot force people to accept the " good news of the Kingdom. "
Wetin happen just be like film for their eye!		How quickly things had happened!
For us to fit obey this command wey dey Bible, we go need to dey gentle and still dey patient.		Indeed, it takes mildness and patience on our part to obey this command.
When Christian don get faith, dem must add other fine fine character join their faith so that dem ' no comot for God love. ' - Read 2 Peter 1: 5 - 7; Jude 20, 21.		On that foundation, Christians must " supply to [ their ] faith " other important qualities " in order to keep [ themselves ] in God 's love. " - Read 2 Peter 1: 5 - 7; Jude 20, 21.
For example, if person stand ontop high mountain, or e dey aeroplane dey look ground, people go just small like ant.		After all, from the top of a high mountain or from the window of an airplane, human activity may seem insignificant.
Another reason be sey na God Kingdom we dey support.		Another reason is that we support God 's Kingdom.
still use prophet Zephaniah talk sey: ' I go change the people language to pure language [ about wetin dey Bible ], so that all of dem fit call name, to serve am as one [ or, " worship am with one mind, " ftn. ]. ' ( Zeph.		Moreover, foretold through the prophet Zephaniah: " I will change the language of the peoples to a pure language [ of Scriptural truth ], so that all of them may call on the name of, to serve him shoulder to shoulder [ or, " worship him in unity, " ftn. ]. "
But e good make we dey beg to help us.		Rather, we must approach, begging for his help.
The things wey we dey use do research wey dey your language, use am well. E go help you learn more things.		To increase your knowledge of the Scriptures, make good use of the research tools available in your language.
Wetin fit make papa and mama go back to the congregation wey dey use the language wey their pikin dey understand well?		What factors might influence parents to move back to a congregation that uses the language their children best understand?
Give one example.		Cite an example.
How you go take do wetin the yeartext talk for your life?		How will you apply the 2017 yeartext in your life?
My uncle wey dey 60 years, wey im name na Julius come be my pioneer partner.		Uncle Julius, who was 60 years old, became my pioneer partner.
Wetin John 13: 34, 35 talk sey we suppose dey do?		According to John 13: 34, 35, what obligation do we have?
E love us and e know how we dey feel.		He understands our situation and loves us.
Titus 1: 5 - 9 ) Wetin all the congregation gain, when dem do wetin the governing body talk?		How did the congregations benefit from following the direction of the governing body?
Josh. 24: 15 ) If we choose wetin good, ready to direct us. ( Prov.		If we choose the right course, we can look to to guide our steps.
Abraham face some problem wey put im life for danger, and other people still cause wahala for am.		Abraham is one who endured life - threatening situations and difficulties caused by others.
After everything don finish, this man wey dey listen come go meet the Bible Students sey e want learn more.		When the dust settles, the interested man approaches the brothers to learn more.
And e don still help dem make government reduce their tax. If this brochure dey your country, you fit tell the secretary for your congregation make e give you one.		If available in the country where you reside, the brochure may be obtained by requesting a copy from the secretary of the local congregation.
And make we know wetin we suppose do if other people make mistake.		We need to maintain our loyalty to and his arrangements and to learn how to view or react to the faults of others.
And you go fit handle problem wey you and person get because of the sin wey dey our body.		Also, you can deal more effectively with situations that arise because of human imperfection.
Anything fit make im mind come down?		Could anything ease her sorrow?
Apart from that one, we learn sey God Kingdom go remove suffer suffer. And we still learn sey, when the Kingdom don start to rule, we go live better life wey no go end. - John 3: 16; Rev.		We further learned that his Kingdom will end all suffering and that we have the prospect of living forever in peace and happiness under Kingdom rule. - John 3: 16; Rev.
Apostle John talk sey make our love dey ' show for wetin we dey do and make e dey real. '		The apostle John wrote that we must love " in deed and truth. "
Apostle Peter na elder wey people sabi for im time.		The apostle Peter was a well - known elder in the Christian congregation.
As e want comot, one usher come ask am sey: ' Why e be sey na now you want comot? '		An usher asked, " How can you leave at a time like this? "
At last, Daniel come go meet the elders to help am.		Finally, Daniel sought the help of the elders.
Because of three things wey we go talk about for this topic.		We will examine three reasons.
Bible show sey no dey happy to see people wey like to do bad things and wey bad thing full their mind.		The Bible reveals that is saddened when people pursue a wicked course and ' the inclination of their thoughts is only bad all the time. '
But Romans chapter 8 still concern Christians wey go stay for earth because for God eye we fit talk sey dem dey righteous too.		However, Romans chapter 8 is also of interest to those who have the earthly hope because God in a sense views them as righteous.
But as time dey go, im papa and mama and other people for congregation help am. E come be regular pioneer.		With the help of her parents and others in the congregation, this young Christian achieved her goal of becoming a regular pioneer.
But for where dey, the matter go change!		That policy, however, did not take God into account.
But to follow for the people wey God go save, we must continue to dey watch.		However, if we want to survive the destruction of this system, we must keep on the watch.
But when we come see sey dem no dey really learn anything for meeting with our language, we come go congregation wey dey use the language of the new place wey we dey.		But when we saw that they were getting little benefit from the meetings in our language, we decided to move to the local - language congregation.
Dem believe sey na answer their prayer, when dem think sey their own don finish.		They proceeded to the convention city, convinced that had answered their desperate prayers for help.
Dem dey fit live better life and dey happy!		Yes, a happy and fulfilling life was possible!
Dem fit dey feel sey dem no get chance to train other people.		They think that they do not have time to train others.
Dem go still learn sey dem need to dey patient and dem no need to tire to go check people for preaching. - Gal. 5: 22; check the box " No Tire to Check the Person! "		They will also learn not to give up quickly but to be patient and persevere in the ministry. - Gal. 5: 22; see the box " Perseverance Is Essential. "
Dem no share alcohol for the wedding. Dem really arrange everything well.		There was no alcohol at the wedding, and the festivities were orderly.
Do wetin you fit do, no be wetin you no fit do. '		Focus on what you can do, not on what you cannot do. "
E clear say the apostles don really learn from Jesus how to love " different - different kind of people. " ( John 12: 32; 1 Tim.		Clearly, the apostles did learn from Jesus ' example to love " all sorts of men. "
E dey pain us when we hear the kind thing wey dem dey do; how dem take dey oppress small pikin, old people and people wey no get who fit help dem.		The way the wicked brutalize children, the elderly, and other defenseless ones fills us with horror.
E good make we dey check if our faith still strong.		We would do well to assess the quality of our faith.
E send some brothers make dem carry the money go Judea. But Paul make sure sey this brothers " take care of everything well, " and dem " do the right thing both for God eye and for people eye. "		He took steps to ensure that those delivering the funds cared for " everything honestly, not only in the sight of but also in the sight of men. "
E talk sey dem do wetin vex government, army, and all the church leaders; so their punishment go strong well well.		They have not only called in question the law officers of the Government and the army intelligence bureau but have denounced all the ministers of all the churches. Their punishment should be severe. "
E tell dem sey: ' E go happen if una do wetin wey be una God talk. ' - Zech.		In connection with rebuilding the temple, promised: " It will occur - if you do not fail to listen to the voice of your God. " - Zech.
Even if dem no really know this people, dem go dey follow dem for internet.		Of course, some Christians may find pleasure in communicating with family or close friends by such means.
Even if our problem big pass us, and nobody dey to help us, ready to help us. - Ps.		He does so even when we feel that we are facing impossible circumstances alone. - Ps.
Even though sey una no dey see am now, una still dey show sey una get faith for im side. '		Though you do not see him now, yet you exercise faith in him. "
Fake religion still full everywhere. Bible call all this fake religion Babylon the Great. E still talk sey ' demons dey stay ' there. ( Rev.		Today, we live as foreigners, as it were, in a world that has been morally and spiritually corrupted by Babylon the Great, the world empire of false religion, " a dwelling place of demons. "
For 1948, dem tell Arthur sey e go stay prison for another three months.		During 1948, Arthur received another three - month prison sentence.
For Israel time, wetin go happen if person kill another person by mistake?		How were cases of accidental bloodshed handled in Israel?
For example, when Israel people dey for wilderness, give dem food and water for 40 years. ( Ex.		For 40 years, supplied manna and water for the nation of Israel while they were in the wilderness.
For that topic, we see sey the governing body for the apostle time give people wey be circuit overseer that time, the power to choose elders and ministerial servant.		The article noted that the first - century governing body authorized traveling overseers to make such appointments.
For the same story wey Matthew write about Jesus, e talk say Jesus still warn e disciples about Sadducee people.		They wanted to keep the status quo.
For there, people wey dey work for government dey feel sey no be bad thing to " find dem something. " And this people no go do any work for person unless the person dash dem something.		In some lands, government officials take advantage of their position to extort money or other favors from those whom they are supposed to serve, and they are unwilling to do anything unless they receive a gift.
Heidi, wey come from Germany wey dey 73 years now, still dey do missionary work for Ivory Coast ( wey be Cte d 'Ivoire now ) since 1968.		Heidi, from Germany, now in her early 70 ' s, has been serving as a missionary in Ivory Coast ( now Cte d 'Ivoire ) since 1968.
How Satan fit make us remove our helmet?		How could Satan induce us to remove our helmet?
How elders fit join hand with papa and mama?		How can the elders reinforce the efforts of parents who are helping their children progress to baptism?
How the thing wey Jesus talk fit help you?		Jesus ' words can have what positive effect on you?
I go do wetin I promise for where all im people dey. ' - Ps.		I will pay my vows to in the presence of all his people. " - Ps.
I really happy, and I don gain many things from the way I take use my life serve, the God wey get power pass.		I have, indeed, had a happy and rewarding life in service to, our great God.
I write something give am, wey sey, ' I no want be anybody soldier. Na Jesus soldier I want be. '		I handed the man a written statement, saying, " I only want to be a soldier of Christ. "
If organization give you more work, how people fit gain from you?		If you are entrusted with more work in 's organization, how can you become a blessing to others?
If e dey hard you to tell people wetin you think about dem, you fit dey feel sey you no go fit encourage person. Make you no dey think like that.		It would be an error on our part if we believed that we cannot be encouraging because we are not particularly communicative.
If this one happen, dem fit punish Jew people wey be Christian.		If that happened, Jews who associated with Christians could be punished.
If we ' dey put mind for the spirit, ' which kind life we fit get?		If we ' set our mind on the spirit, ' what sort of life can we have?
If we do like that, we go fit put body for God work instead of business. This one go show sey we dey use our sense. - 1 Tim.		We demonstrate practical wisdom when we simplify our life and reduce debt and expenses, setting ourselves free to slave for God rather than for today 's commercial system. - 1 Tim.
If you dey stay Israel that time wey Eli and im pikin dem dey, wetin you for do?		If you had lived in Israel at the time of Eli and his sons, how would you have reacted?
If you try put mind for this work, go bless you and you go fit see person wey you go study Bible with.		By your extending yourself and with God 's blessing, you may be able to start a Bible study.
Instead of us to see our freedom ' as chance to do the bad things wey the flesh want, ' make we do everything wey we fit do to choose wetin go help us do wetin Bible talk. E sey: ' Do everything to praise God. ' - Gal.		Instead of using our freedom " as an opportunity to pursue fleshly desires, " we want to be determined to make choices that help us to heed the admonition: " Do all things for God 's glory. " - Gal.
Go Make Your Plan Get Head, July		Aug. Are You Taking Refuge in?
organization don give us many things wey go help us.		s organization has supplied many well - researched aids to help us.
Jesus still dey rule, and this world go soon end.		It is still continuing, and the end of this wicked system of things is now very near.
Jesus talk sey: ' Where your property dey, na there your mind go still dey. '		Jesus said: " Where your treasure is, there your heart will be also. "
Jesus teach us wetin fit help us. E sey: ' Know the truth, and the truth go free una. '		Jesus gave this simple rule for combating propaganda: " Know the truth, and the truth will set you free. "
Like person wey dey find gold, you dey work well well to find the better things wey dey inside Bible?		Like a prospector who exerts himself to find gold, do you work hard to learn precious Bible truths?
Make una wey be children dey obey una papa and mama for everything. This one dey make the Lord happy.		You children, be obedient to your parents in everything, for this is well - pleasing to the Lord.
Michael papa and mama plan to baptize for the convention. But soldier stop dem when dem reach where dem go cross enter Serbia ( border ).		They were on their way to a convention at which Milan 's parents intended to get baptized.
Na another place Nora for serve. But I continue to preach for Angat.		Nora served in another town, while I continued to support the preaching activity in Angat.
Na im you come check the place whether you go see more.		Of course, you look around to see if there are more nuggets to be found.
Na im you come hear as dey tell you sey: ' My pikin, show sey you get sense and my mind go sweet, so that I go know wetin I go tell the person wey dey insult me. ' - Proverbs 27: 11.		And then you hear telling you: " Be wise, my son, and make my heart rejoice, so that I can make a reply to him who taunts me. " - Proverbs 27: 11.
Na the brothers and sisters for our congregation.		Those who are a regular part of our lives, the brothers and sisters in our congregation.
Nowadays, na brothers wey be part of " other sheep " dey direct wetin Society go do about any matter wey concern government. Apart from Watch Tower Society, e get other name wey people dey use for other country, so that government go dey allow us do our work.		In recent years, responsible brothers of the " other sheep " have served as directors of the legal Society and of other corporations used by God 's people, thus allowing the Governing Body to focus on providing spiritual instruction and direction.
One person wey do things like God and Jesus, na apostle Paul.		Paul was just such an imitator of God and his Son.
Peter write to dem sey: " The time wey everything go end don near. "		The end of all things has drawn close, " wrote Peter.
Psalm 118: 22 talk about one person wey dem go bring come life again after e die.		Yes, hundreds of years in advance, the prophetic statement at Psalm 118: 22 indicated that a resurrection would occur.
Satan talk sey no want make better thing reach Im servant hand, but that one na lie. dey give us everything wey we need to fit enjoy life.		Contrary to what the Devil claims, does not hold back anything good from his faithful worshippers.
Satan want make we dey pursue money and property instead of wetin want.		Satan wants us to slave for Riches rather than for.
So, some people wey dey study this kind matter believe sey Abraham carry container wey hot charcoal dey inside. The container fit be clay pot wey get long chain hand and person fit gather hot charcoal from the fire wey dem light the night before the next day.		A number of scholars thus believe that what Abraham carried was a vessel - perhaps a pot suspended from a chain - that contained live coals or charcoal embers raked from the preceding night 's fire.
So e come start to study Bible again. As time dey go, e come be publisher.		So he resumed his Bible study and eventually qualified to become a publisher of the good news.
Sometimes, the people dey plenty reach hundred and dem go dey ask question till night reach.		Sometimes a hundred people came, and they stayed late into the evening asking questions.
The first meaning wey this vision get be sey Babylon army go scatter Jerusalem reach ground. E happen five years after the vision.		Although the pagan Babylonians were allowed to bring about that destruction, they were serving as 's executioners.
The first verse for that chapter talk about ' people wey be one with Jesus Christ. '		And the opening verse in that chapter refers to " those in union with Christ Jesus. "
The next topic go tell us how Jesus sacrifice take settle another matter wey Satan talk about for garden of Eden.		The next article will consider how Jesus ' sacrifice also addresses the moral issues that were raised by Satan back in the garden of Eden.
The sacrifice wey your Pikin do, no fit cover my sin. '		Your Son 's sacrifice is not enough to cover me. '
The thing pain me reach my bone.		I felt crushed, concluding that I was a spiritual failure.
Things like: To dey fear people, fear sey we fit die, fear sey people go suffer us and any other thing to put fear for our body. Wetin e want na make we stop to serve. - Isa.		Satan will use fear of man, fear of persecution, fear of death, and any other kind of negative fear to try to dominate you and make you shrink back from serving. - Isa.
This one come dey make am near more more and e come fit dey manage the problem.		The support of true friends and spiritual brothers is vital in times of distress.
This one go make them give us good advice. - Job 12: 12.		Having the benefit of experience, they may perceive the likely outcome of a decision and thus give us good advice. - Job 12: 12.
This one go make us like wetin we dey learn for Bible more more. - Read Psalm 1: 2.		But whatever method we use, reading these scriptures carefully and meditating on them will deepen our love for Bible truth. - Read Psalm 1: 2.
This one go make us near our brothers and sisters more more, and we no go get wahala with other people. - Gal.		May we do all we can, then, to imitate him - to promote warm affection among our brothers and good relations with our neighbors by showing compassion. - Gal.
This one make me learn many things because I work with people wey get sense.		That led to many wonderful experiences because I met many wise ones and worked with them.
To dress well, no be matter wey people dey take play and na so e still be for the God wey we dey worship.		Appropriate standards of dress are important to us as 's people, and they are important to the God we worship.
To think well, no be only to sabi wetin person no fit quick see. ( Heb.		To perceive " means to recognize something that may not be immediately visible or obvious.
Two brothers dey give tract to one painter wey dey ontop bridge for front of Katilac. Katilac na one military building wey dem build for olden days near one city wey dem dey call Split		Two brothers offer a tract to a painter on the bridge in front of Katilac, a fortress built in the 16th century, near the city of Split
We dey always pray to am? We dey thank am as e love us and as e help us come know am and dey serve am?		Do we daily approach our loving heavenly Father in prayer, thanking him for bringing us under his rulership and for loving us?
We go first see the gain wey dey for personal Bible study before we fit help another person see the gain wey dey.		Before helping others to benefit from personal Bible study, we ourselves must be convinced of its value.
We ready to use our mind wait for the better things wey don promise.		How different things are for us!
We use this station from 1924 go reach 1957.		That was operated by 's from 1924 to 1957.
Wetin Asa do when Ethiopia people come fight am?		How did Asa react when the Ethiopians invaded the land?
Wetin fit help you bear am if person for your family leave?		What can help you to cope if a family member leaves?
Wetin make us believe say de happy as we de preach, no matter how our territory be?		Why can we be sure that regardless of where we preach, we can have a fruitful ministry?
When John reach the brother house, na the brother wife e see. The wife too na Witness. As the sister want collect the envelope from John, e come see the wound.		When John arrived at the address, the recipient 's wife, who was one of 's, accepted the envelope.
When all this things dey happen, I know sey dey use im holy spirit help me. E just be like sey hold my hand. Na this one give me mind make I no fall. - Isa.		All through this experience, I knew that holy spirit was helping me and that was holding my hand, making me firm and strong. - Isa.
When we dey Puerto Rico, sometimes we dey go visit my family people for England.		From Puerto Rico, we visited my family in England several times.
When we value our preaching, we no go just dey count hour.		When we view the ministry as a priceless treasure from, we will never be content with simply " counting time. "
When you think about all this work wey dem dey do, you go see sey dem need our prayer.		Surely they need our persistent petitions in their behalf!
Where we go park am put no come be problem again. Some farmers wey like us give us place to park am.		Amazingly, we had no problem parking the trailer on the property of friendly farmers.
Why e good make we dey do personal Bible study?		How important is personal study of the Scriptures?
Why e no good make I join people wey believe sey dem go fit change things wey dey happen for the world? '		Why should I not join worldly reform movements? '
You fit tell am make e talk how e think sey life take start, if no be God make us.		You might ask him to explain how life could have begun without a Creator.
You fit use the book wey you dey study with am show am how to prepare for una study.		A good start is by showing him how to prepare for the study you conduct with him.
You see wetin Zechariah 5: 3, 4 talk? E talk sey curse go enter the house of people wey dey thief and e no go comot. The curse go finish everything wey dey their house.		Did you notice at Zechariah 5: 3, 4 that " the curse. [ would ] enter into the house of the thief. and it [ would ] remain inside that house and consume it "?
Make Endurance Finish Im Work, ' Apr.		Let Endurance Complete Its Work, " Apr.
Even though sey na one of the main things wey we believe and wey we learn from Bible, e still good make we study about am well. ( Heb.		But the fact that the resurrection is included as a primary doctrine, one of the " elementary things of the sacred pronouncements of God, " does not mean that it is a simplistic teaching.
Other Christian dey always keep money wey dem dey contribute to support work.		Others set aside money and gave regular donations to support the work.
[CONTENT_REMOVED]		See also the box " Soothing Words of Consolation. " )
So to serve, na im dey make person happy pass for life.		So when we serve, we naturally get the most enjoyment from life.
Wetin God tell dem no correct?		Was this command in any way unjust, unnecessary, or unreasonable?
You go fit go preach for another country where plenty people want learn about?		Could you assist in a part of the world where the fields are " white for harvesting "?
E get one sister wey im name na Rachel. E pack comot from where e for grow.		I am reserved by nature, " says Rachel, who moved far away from where she grew up.
If Adam and Eve obey God, dem for enjoy their marriage and their family for happy forever.		Enjoying their marriage and family for all eternity could have been Adam and Eve 's happy lot in life.
Wetin go help us put mind for wetin God promise us?		What helps us to keep our eyes on the prize?
Which better advice Jesus give about money and property?		What wise counsel did Jesus give regarding material things?
This one come mean sey Adam and Eve dey free to do anything wey dem like?		Does this mean that the freedom that Adam and Eve enjoyed was absolute?
Instead of us to ' put mind for the flesh, ' which better thing Paul sey make we do?		What alternative is there to " setting the mind on the flesh "?
From the time wey the Messiah come, don tell us plenty things about Satan and other wicked angels. * use Jesus and e disciples to tell us.		When that was accomplished and the Messiah arrived, used him and his disciples to reveal much of what we know about Satan and the angels who joined him.
After, the brothers come tell Arthur sey the ladder wey dem use climb, person carry am comot. So when dem need another knife, dem no fit come down.		Afterward, the brothers explained to Arthur that they had climbed a ladder to the roof and then the ladder had been taken away.
After one year, dem come allow my senior brother Ilias make e go house go take care of our mama since our papa don die.		A year later, Ilias, as the oldest son, was allowed to return home to care for our widowed mother.
Army and they send me go Germany.		Army and sent to Germany.
As e never do this work before, e go fit do am?		Would his youth and inexperience be an obstacle?
BECAUSE dem born us with sin, all of us dey make mistake.		BEING imperfect, we are prone to make mistakes.
But, after some years, dem no come dey worry us again because of how we take train our children and the truth wey we dey preach from Bible.		However, as the years passed, they came to respect us because of our beliefs and the way we raised our children.
But e clear say sisters still dey among, and e call some of them by their name.		That clearly included sisters, several of whom he mentioned by name.
But e fit be say apostle John regret why e behave like that.		It seems likely that prejudice had kindled their animosity.
But wetin want make we do never change - e still be ' one. '		But 's requirements have not changed - he is still " one. "
But you know sey go help you. don promise sey things go soon better and you believe am.		Nevertheless, your confidence in God 's promises is absolute; your faith in a better future, unwavering.
Children fit learn the language of the new area wey dem dey. Dem fit learn am for school or from other people.		The children will likely learn the local language at school and in their environment.
Dem fit even sey make we dey study the children.		On occasion, new ones ask mature publishers to help them teach their children the truth, even to conduct a Bible study with the youngsters.
E get anything wey don happen to correct Christians before, wey be like the slave life wey the Jews live for Babylon?		Have Christians ever experienced anything comparable to the Babylonian captivity?
E go help dem to fit serve well. ( Prov.		You can thus help them to serve more fully.
E know sey, if dem cut tree, e fit still grow again and be like new tree.		He realized that if a mere tree is cut down, it might sprout again and be like a new plant.
E name na Hans. Because of this sister character, Hans come dey read our book.		Her fine conduct in the face of difficulties impressed another colleague named Hans.
E talk say small - small, e stop partial and e no de hate people again.		She acknowledges how a study of the Bible affected her, saying: " I was molded with a new heart and mind.
E talk sey: " I don see sey the more I dey give, the more I come dey treat other people well.		I find that the more generous I am materially, the more generous my disposition toward others has become.
E talk sey: " Wetin help me na prayer, Bible study, and to dey think about wetin I learn. The more I dey like the better better character wey get, na so my love for am dey strong more more.		He explains: " Through prayer, Bible study, and meditation on what I learned, my appreciation of God 's qualities increased until my love for became stronger than my desire for pornography. "
Fernndez ), Apr.		Token " and " seal " that anointed receive, Apr.
For 1950, I come travel go where dem dey call Vancouver.		In 1950, I moved to Vancouver.
For 2017 service year, e pass 284,000 people wey baptize.		During the 2017 service year, more than 284,000 " rightly disposed " individuals symbolized their dedication to by water baptism.
For example, Lamech wey be im papa get faith for. Dem born Lamech before Adam die.		These included his father, Lamech, who was a man of faith and whose life overlapped Adam 's.
For us to fit do this one, we go talk about some of the new character wey use Paul write for Bible.		To strengthen our desire to reach that goal, we will consider several aspects of the new personality that the apostle Paul was inspired to write about.
How other people for congregation fit join hand to help children? Make dem use better mind dey do wetin show sey dem really like the children.		Members of the congregation can help by demonstrating appropriate personal interest in young ones.
How to know something, to understand something, and to get better sense take different?		How do knowledge, understanding, and wisdom differ?
How we take know sey last Memorial go dey?		How do we know that there will be a final Memorial?
How you go take explain wetin dey Genesis 3: 15?		How would you explain Genesis 3: 15?
I de happy as I de visit brothers and sisters to encourage them		I continue to find satisfaction in making shepherding visits
organization still need many Kingdom Hall.		Hundreds of new Kingdom Halls are needed.
still give holy spirit to other people wey e later choose to lead Israel.		Later, 's holy spirit empowered other men whom he appointed to lead his people.
Know how to answer different different person well. ' - Col.		Know how you should answer each person. " - Col.
Like Josiah, make young people start to serve from small.		Like Josiah, young ones should start to seek from an early age.
Make we no use am anyhow or use am do wetin no good.		Instead of squandering or misusing it, let us use our freedom and the opportunities it brings to serve to the fullest extent possible.
Many quarrel wey brothers and sisters dey get na wetin dem fit settle and suppose settle by theirself.		Most differences between Christians can and should be resolved privately by the individuals concerned.
My faith dey make me do wetin like and tell people about am? '		Does my faith impel me not only to live in harmony with God 's righteous standards but also to proclaim them? '
My mama na strong member of Catholic Church, and e want make I become sister for church ( nun ).		My mother was a devout Catholic and wanted me to be a nun.
My wife Maria and our two daughter, Olga and Irina, for 1965		Maria and our daughters, Olga and Irina, in 1965
Na that one even make give us Bible to help us.		In fact, to that end God has provided the Bible for our guidance.
Na the love wey dem get for and their strong faith for wetin God don promise. God promise dem sey e go comot people wey dey do bad and bless im people with life wey no go end for paradise. - Read Psalm 37: 5, 7, 9, 29.		Their love for and their strong faith in the promise that he will correct all injustices and reward his faithful servants with everlasting life in a new world of righteousness. - Read Psalm 37: 5, 7, 9, 29.
Na the same thing with people wey go rule with am for heaven.		Death was no longer master over Jesus.
Na this one we go talk about for the next topic.		Let us address that matter in the following article.
Na two months before the day wey e go baptize, e die.		He died two months before the day he was going to get baptized.
Na wetin John write when e sey: ' So we suppose treat this kind people well, so that all of us fit dey do things together for the truth. ' - 3 John 8.		It is as John wrote: " We are under obligation to show hospitality to such ones, so that we may become fellow workers in the truth. " - 3 John 8.
Na wetin one young brother wey im name na Lucas do.		That is what Luca did.
No be only the story wey dey Bible and the people wey Bible talk about dem need to know.		However, more is involved in imparting spiritual education to children than simply teaching them about the people and events of the Bible.
No forget sey na two times now wey Jesus talk sey ' make una no dey worry. '		Note that for the second time, Jesus says: " Never be anxious. "
No work sotey you no come get time for your children.		Never get so busy that you do not have time for your children.
One strong earthquake happen wey shake everywhere.		Suddenly, there is a violent earthquake.
One young brother wey im name na Stephen Miller, really know wetin e suppose do and e follow wetin Governing Body talk.		Young Stephen Miller felt the sense of urgency and responded to the call.
Or, I want correct the matter by myself? ' - Prov. 11: 2; read Micah 7: 7.		Would I patiently wait on, or would I be inclined to take matters into my own hands? ' - Prov. 11: 2; read Micah 7: 7.
Others want make I advise dem about how dem fit dey do their work well for Bethel.		Others ask for counsel on making a success of their Bethel service.
Parkin Take Talk Am		Parkin
People for congregation do wetin dem talk. Na im make congregation ' continue to strong for faith and come dey plenty everyday. '		The congregations followed their direction and " continued to be made firm in the faith and to increase in number day by day. "
Satan de use different - different style to make people do the things wey e want.		Satan uses effective methods to influence individuals.
See some things wey Bible talk wey fit help you.		Why not meditate on the following valuable principles?
Since e be sey love us, make we no stop to dey let am mold us. - Prov.		So let us be determined to continue submitting to, showing him that we view his molding as an expression of his love for us. - Prov.
So if government no gree do wetin dem talk or dey treat people anyhow, that one no go disturb you because you dey patient and you dey control yourself.		These qualities will help you if the government does something that is dishonest or unjust.
Some dey even go Gilead School.		Some are even able to attend Gilead School.
Steven and im wife, wey im name na Shannan, dey among people wey dey translate sign - language for United States branch office.		In addition, Nicholas and his wife, Deborah, help with sign - language translation in the Britain branch while Steven and his wife, Shannan, are part of the sign - language translation team in the United States branch.
The brothers wey dey the branch office, wey dey direct the preaching work for there come advise us sey make we go one new congregation for where dem dey call Irlam.		The branch office suggested that we move to a newly established congregation in Irlam.
The crown wey dem put for im head only show wetin go happen for front.		His crowning was prophetic, pointing to a future and eternal king and priest.
The main problem be sey our ' mind dey deceive pass anything and e hard to control. ' ( Jer. 3: 17; 13: 10; 17: 9; 1 Ki.		The core problem is that in imperfect humans, " the heart is more treacherous than anything else and is desperate. "
The same person wey write Psalm 147, come see some stars wey make. E talk sey, dey count the stars, and e dey call all of dem by their name. ( Ps.		The psalmist then turns his attention to the heavens above, telling us that " counts the number of the stars " and " calls all of them by name. "
The soldier dem tie am with wetin dem take dey tie mad person until blood no come dey flow for im leg.		Guards trussed him in a straitjacket until his limbs became numb.
The things wey God promise dey make our mind come down.		God 's promises act like spiritual balm that soothes our anxious heart.
The truth be sey, no better Christian want be like Diotrephes wey no get respect and wey no dey support organization.		Of course, no loyal Christian would want to display a disrespectful and disloyal spirit like that of Diotrephes.
Then, the topic explain say: " The person go do this one when e de tell people the good news, and when e de do wetin God want. "		The article then explained: " He must do this by telling the good news to the peoples of the earth, and by conforming himself to the ways of light. "
This one dey special. Why we arrange am?		Why was the campaign organized?
This one go make dem happy to do the work. But to respect and praise elders no mean sey we go begin copy one elder wey we feel sey people sabi.		But this does not mean that we try to copy a " prominent " elder in the exact way he dresses and grooms himself, his manner of public speaking, or even his style of conversation.
This topic go still help us see why we suppose let other people use their freedom choose wetin dem want.		It will also help us to see how we can respect the way that others exercise their gift of free will.
Una dey jealous because I get open hand? ' - Matt. 20: 1 - 15, ftn.		Are you envious because I am generous? ' - Matt. 20: 1 - 15, ftn.
Use example talk am.		Illustrate.
We go answer this three question for the next topic.		We will consider the answers to those questions in the next article.
We self dey do mistake.		We too are imperfect.
Wetin Jesus talk for Luke 16: 10 - 13?		What counsel is found at Luke 16: 10 - 13?
Wetin Paul tell the brothers for Colossae, go help us no follow wetin people dey talk. E sey: ' Make una dey use sense do things with people wey no dey serve God.		Indeed, all of us can protect ourselves against worldly thinking by following the admonition that Paul gave to the congregation in Colossae: " Go on walking in wisdom toward those on the outside.
Wetin happen to Jim show how person wey dey carry shoulder up fit start to think sey wetin e dey do no bad. This kind thing dey make person get strong head.		Jim 's experience shows how pride can cause us to justify our actions, making us quite the opposite of malleable.
Wetin make Jesus happy?		What made Jesus happy?
Wetin papa and mama fit learn from Daniel papa and mama?		Parents can learn from the example of Daniel 's parents.
Wetin people for this world dey talk show sey dem no value wetin talk for Bible.		Worldly thinking ignores or belittles 's guidelines, and its influence could gradually weaken our faith.
When destroy dem, e go show sey e dey pity for people wey dey do wetin e like.		Rather, executing them will be an appropriate expression of God 's compassion for the righteous, whom he will preserve.
When Nehemiah hear sey people for Jerusalem dey for wahala, e pray make help dem.		When Nehemiah heard about the plight of the people in Jerusalem, he fervently prayed to.
When people get problem, wetin you fit do to make their mind come down?		What can you do to provide comfort to others?
When we make person vex, if na to tell am sorry go settle the matter, make we tell am sorry.		An apology can help to repair hurt feelings, but it must be sincere.
Which hope you get about people wey don die?		What is your hope about the resurrection?
Which kind eye we go take look freedom?		How should Christians view freedom?
Why e be sey people wey dey congregation wey dey use another language like to dey study Bible for their own language?		Why do many of those serving in a foreign - language field find it beneficial to study regularly in their mother tongue?
Why we suppose dey welcome stranger wey dey with us?		What reasons do we have for welcoming strangers among us?
Yes, still follow im law when e let Jesus die for us so that we fit be part of im family.		Yes, on the basis of Jesus ' sacrifice, can accept humans back into his family without compromising his righteousness.
You don ever tire to preach because people for your area no de listen? If na so, you go understand how apostle Paul feel when e de preach.		If you have ever felt discouraged when preaching in less responsive territories, you will relate to the apostle Paul.
You fit still use the same advice if you dey talk to person wey no trust wetin Bible talk.		You can use the same basic principles when you talk with someone who has doubts about the Bible.
You no think sey this preaching wey we dey do, na big work wey dey bring better gain? - Matt.		Do you not agree that our activity in spreading the good news is a great and rewarding work? - Matt.
Wetin we dey do and wetin we dey talk for this matter, fit help other people.		Giving also makes us happy, for " there is more happiness in giving than there is in receiving. "
E no hard for Adam and Eve to understand and do wetin talk.		It was not hard for Adam and Eve to understand this law; nor was it a hardship for them to obey it.
For example, prophet Isaiah talk sey dey pity people. If you check wetin Mark write about Jesus, you go see sey Jesus still dey pity people.		Note, for example, how 's feelings of compassion are described by the prophet Isaiah, and compare that description with what the Gospel writer Mark reports about Jesus ' feelings.
But what of some other things wey some people no dey see as lie?		Is that, though, as far as our honesty goes?
Many people that time believe say the government of the Messiah go dey for Israel.		Many believed that the Messiah would establish a kingdom on earth in Israel.
Dem continue to suffer me like that until I faint.		Finally, after what seemed to be an eternity, I fell unconscious.
People for Sanhedrin fit dey laugh Joseph, because e want bury Jesus.		By arranging Jesus ' burial, Joseph also risked derision from his colleagues.
Paul write give Christian dem for Thessalonica wey dey face wahala, e tell dem sey: ' Make our Lord Jesus Christ imself and God our Father, wey love us and dey always make our mind come down and wey give us better hope because of im favor, make una mind come down and make una strong. ' ( 2 Thess. 2: 16, 17, ftn. )		To Christians in Thessalonica, who were experiencing persecution, Paul wrote: " May our Lord Jesus Christ himself and God our Father, who loved us and gave everlasting comfort and good hope by means of undeserved kindness, comfort your hearts and strengthen you. "
When we need to dey patient?		When can it be especially challenging to help those who are weak?
Which three things fit help us make we remain as one?		What are three ways in which we can promote unity?
Give example wey go show how we fit let ' endurance finish im work ' for our life.		Give examples of how we can " let endurance complete its work. "
How we take know sey e no good to play with wetin we promise God?		What do the Scriptures say about making vows to God?
Wetin be some example of fake love?		What are some examples of counterfeit love?
Wetin make am talk like that? Because of the sin wey dey our body, Bible sey we be like clay pot.		He described the ministry of the new covenant as a " treasure in earthen vessels. "
E believe sey if no give am pikin, go do another thing wey go make im mind come down.		She trusted that would either put an end to her barrenness or fill the lack in some other way.
Heb. 13: 18 ) Dem go still dey respect how other people for their area take dey do things and dem go ' love their neighbor as dem take love theirself. ' ( Matt. 22: 39; Rom. 12: 17, 18; 1 Thess.		They also strive to respect local customs and sensibilities and to ' love their neighbor as themselves. '
Even though sey im na our God, e still dey respect us.		God treats his human servants with dignity and respect.
So, e no good make person wey dey serve kill person because e want protect imself or im property. E go make sure sey e do everything wey e fit do, make person blood no dey im head. - Deut.		Hence, if a Christian chooses to take reasonable measures to defend himself or his property, he would do everything in his power to avoid taking a human life and becoming bloodguilty. - Deut.
Andreas wey get two pikin talk sey: " Better word dey help small small pikin behave well and serve as dem dey grow.		Andreas, who has two children, says: " Encouragement helps children to grow up spiritually and emotionally.
Adam and Eve need to choose wetin dem go do now.		Now Adam and Eve had to decide what to do.
After dem train us for five month for New York, dem come send me and three people wey dem train go some small small island wey dey the Caribbean Sea.		After the five - month course in New York, four of us Gilead graduates were assigned to the smaller islands of the Caribbean Sea.
All our meeting dey help us learn about more more.		Every meeting helps us to learn more about.
And dem baptize before dem reach 20 years. Dem come send Dennis go Ireland.		Very soon Dennis was assigned to Ireland, leaving Arthur without a partner.
And when person don vex well well, e fit do wetin e no suppose do. This one fit make am no happy for some time.		And at times a fit of anger may be followed by a prolonged period of depression.
Apostle Paul warn the brothers for Galatia about wetin fit happen if dem let other people choose for dem.		The apostle Paul clearly alerted the Galatians to the danger of letting others make personal decisions for them.
As e be sey Jesus Christ and im holy angels go soon comot this wicked world, chariot dey move fast fast to show sey na get right to rule and to clean im holy name.		With Christ and the holy angels about to destroy this wicked world, 's chariot is rapidly moving toward the vindication of his sovereignty and the sanctification of his holy name!
As we don know wetin God want from us, wetin e like and wetin e no like, na our hand e dey to do the correct thing and to show sey na im get right to rule.		With our knowledge of God 's requirements and standards comes the responsibility to do what is right and uphold his sovereignty.
Beg am mek e help you sabi wetin you suppose do for that kind condition.		And ask him to help you to do the right thing in that situation.
Bible talk for Psalm 128: 1 say: " Who de fear and de do wetin God want, go dey happy. "		Happy is everyone who fears, who walks in His ways, " sang the psalmist.
Bible talk sey " God no dey support people wey dey carry shoulder, but e dey show favor to people " wey dey carry body down. - 1 Pet.		Above all, our humility will please God, for he " opposes the haughty ones, but he gives undeserved kindness to the humble ones. " - 1 Pet.
Bible talk sey: ' Person wey dey help who no get dey borrow something, and E go pay am back for wetin e do. ' ( Prov.		The one showing favor to the lowly is lending to, and He will repay him for what he does.
Bible talk sey we go learn more things about for paradise, and everybody for ' the whole earth ' go dey do wetin like. ( Isa.		Regarding the Paradise earth, God says: " The earth will certainly be filled with the knowledge of. "
Bible tell us about people wey use their mind give things. Some of dem contribute wetin dem get to support work.		The aspect of giving from personal resources is well - established in the Scriptures.
But I still dey read Bible every day, and I dey go meeting and preaching as my body gree me.		But I still read the Bible every day, and I go to meetings and out in the ministry whenever I can.
But even when e no happy, e still dey pray to. E no stop to beg to help am.		However, during times of discouragement, she persevered in prayer, turning to for his help.
But if papa and mama dey listen to, dem no go try wetin dem think sey go work, and dem no go think sey dem go fit do am by theirself.		When parents listen to God, successful child - rearing does not become a matter of guesswork; nor does it depend on human experience or human thinking.
But once dem plant am for another place, e go start to grow new root.		Once transplanted, the tree must immediately start growing new roots.
But that one no make Don stop to do am good. E pass 14 years wey Don dey try make e help this man.		Still, off and on for more than 14 years, Don patiently worked to be kind to this homeless man.
But wetin go help us fit do am?		But what will help us to do this?
Check the topic " Is Your Recreation Beneficial? "		See the article " Is Your Recreation Beneficial? "
Dem dey go preach for one place wey no near town, and the place far well well		They are going to a remote area of the country to preach
Dem pump the water from one well, and e cold well well no be small!		The water was very, very cold!
Dem talk sey Paul do three things wey show sey e no dey follow Rome Law; ( 1 ) e dey tell Jew people sey make dem no follow wetin government talk. ( 2 ) sey na im be oga of one bad cult and ( 3 ) sey e dey do wetin dem dey forbid for the temple.		They said that he promoted sedition among the Jews throughout the empire; that he led a dangerous sect; and that he was trying to profane the temple, which was then under Roman protection.
E come tell dem sey na the story help am make e no dey salute flag.		She said, " protected those three Hebrews because they would not give worship to an image. "
E dey hard you to be their friend? You dey run for dem, dey select only some kind people wey go be your friend?		Do you tend to shy away from them and associate mainly with those who have a background similar to yours?
E dey use am help us know wetin we go do anytime. No wonder Bible talk sey, ' wetin e talk no dey waste time. '		And " his word runs swiftly " in that he readily gives us spiritual direction when we need it.
E get things wey you fit do to help your children, especially when dem ask you question.		You as a parent play an important role in that process, especially when your child asks questions.
E show us the book wey be The Truth That Leads to Eternal Life.		He showed us the book The Truth That Leads to Eternal Life.
E still de try to make people fear so that they go do wetin e want.		Also, he attempts to bully them into submission.
Even if e no lie, what of wetin God talk when e sey: ' No deceive person '?		Even if no outright lie is told, what of God 's direction: " You must not deceive "?
Even our jw.org website get things wey dey for language wey pass 750.		On our official website, information is available in more than 750 languages.
Even though sey im family people and im friends dey tell am sey make e send the pikin go back, e make up im mind sey that kind thing no good.		Despite pressure from her relatives and friends to send her child to the grandparents, she concluded that it was not right to do so.
For 1929, different congregation wey dey Queensland and Western Australia do different different motor wey pioneer fit use take go preach for their territory wey far well well.		In 1929, congregations in Queensland and Western Australia built several well - equipped motor vans to cover their inland regions.
For 1991, government stop to dey disturb our preaching work. This one come give us more power to dey preach.		In 1991, the activity of 's was given legal recognition.
For example, many young people dey join build place like, Kingdom Hall and Assembly Hall.		For example, many young people share in volunteer construction work.
For one country, the people wey dey quench fire when house dey burn, no dey gree go unless person first give dem big money.		It is even reported that in one country, firemen who respond to emergencies will not begin to tackle a blaze unless they first receive a substantial tip.
For some place, people no want hear anything about God, and some dey vex when we go preach to dem.		In some lands, people are becoming more indifferent, some even hostile.
Gagik still talk sey: " E no come easy for me to give my family wetin dem need because the money wey I come dey get, be like half of wetin I dey get before.		Gagik relates: " My income dropped by about half, so it was a challenge to provide for my family.
Government school dey do things wey show sey dem like their country well well and wey show sey dem go do anything to support am. For example, dem dey salute flag and sing national anthem.		Public schools held patriotic ceremonies that included saluting the flag and singing the national anthem.
How Bible fit help us get true peace?		What does God 's Word say that can help us to find true and lasting peace?
How Israel people take know sey Moses get holy spirit?		How could the Israelites discern that Moses had God 's spirit?
How you fit help strangers for your area?		What help can you offer to newcomers in your area?
I come tell myself sey, ' If nothing spoil, this girl be like who I go marry. '		I said to myself, ' Unless something negative turns up, this looks like the girl I will marry. '
I dey use different different way take preach; I dey use telephone and I dey preach to people wey I see.		I take advantage of different forms of service, such as telephone and informal witnessing.
I just dey think for my mind how trouble no go dey the new world.		I pictured in my mind the quietness of life in the new world, when no one will carry a weapon to harm his neighbor. " - Wilmer, from Colombia.
I really enjoy preaching, even as I de shame.		I enjoyed field service, even though I have always struggled with shyness.
If any of servant want really do work well, e go need to arrange im time well so that e fit dey do personal Bible study.		To serve effectively, a worshipper of must follow a routine of Bible study.
If we hold and im organization tight, we go see sey that word na true, because go give us life wey no go end!		By proving loyal to and his organization, we will experience the truthfulness of those heartening words because we will live forever!
If we want live for Paradise, we go continue to endure.		If we want to live in the new world, we need to keep enduring.
If we want make our light de shine more - more, e good make we de remember the kind time wey we de live.		Our attitude comes into the picture as we strive to increase the extent to which we let our light shine.
Instead of one deaf person, we see reach eight deaf people for only that one village! "		We found, not one deaf person, but eight deaf persons in that one village alone! "
people dey show sey dem like their meeting and dem dey always happy to gather for there.		Today, too, 's servants feel very grateful for the meetings and enjoy being there.
Like papa wey dey teach im pikin how to waka, dey teach us how to do the work wey e give us. So, make we follow as dey direct us.		We have to learn to adjust our unsteady steps to match 's steady lead.
Make I collect this work wey I see? '		Should I accept a certain job offer? '
Make you de read Bible everyday and de pray everytime. ( 1 Pet.		Read God 's Word each day, and be vigilant with a view to prayers.
Many papa and mama still dey ask theirself this kind question when their pikin talk sey e want baptize. ( Eccl. 5: 5 ) Why?		These are questions that many loving parents ask themselves when a child expresses the desire to get baptized.
Me and my missionary partner, Raymond Leach, use ship travel for 47 days go Philippines		Missionary companion Raymond Leach and I traveled 47 days by ship to the Philippines
Me and my wife for 1989 with eight of our children		With my wife and eight of our children in 1989
Mek you sabi some verse for Bible wey go help you no put hand for politics matter or war and mek you still sabi Bible verse wey talk about paradise		Learn Bible verses that will help you to remain neutral and verses that describe the new world
Na ' every year ' Hannah dey suffer for Peninnah hand.		Hannah was taunted by Peninnah " year after year. "
Na buy we dey buy. "		We buy. "
Na only young people this topic help?		Have adults also benefited from the article?
Na the same thing with the truth wey we de learn from Bible. This truth de protect us from the lie wey Satan de teach.		Similarly, the truths we learn from God 's Word protect us from the spiritual harm that false teachings cause.
No stop to get hope sey your pikin go serve well.		Never stop believing that your child can become a fine servant of.
One day, we really tire as we waka for hot sun go study Bible with plenty people.		One day, a month later, we were tired after walking from door to door in the summer heat and conducting Bible studies.
One man for south of Africa like to fight before e come be brother.		A brother in southern Africa had also previously justified violence.
Satan na God enemy. E no like as God be King. Na im mek am talk sey people dey serve because of wetin dem dey gain from.		Satan, an enemy of God who opposes his rule, insulted by saying that humans serve God only for selfish reasons.
See whether you fit answer all this question:		Well, see if you can answer the following questions:
Small paper wey dem design wey be Organization Method and small book To Whom the Work Is Entrusted talk how dem go take do the work. The book and the paper talk sey one new office wey be Service Department, wey dey headquarter, go dey control the work.		The flier Organization Method and the booklet To Whom the Work Is Entrusted laid out the details: A new Service Department at headquarters would direct the work.
So we fit sey, that time, we be ' sin slave. '		It could be said that we " were slaves of sin. "
Some people like to read about wetin Bible talk sey go happen or things wey don happen before for Bible, or some things wey Bible talk about science.		Some have chosen study projects that involved studying Bible prophecy or the Bible 's historical, archaeological, and scientific accuracy.
Some people marriage don get problem or don even scatter because the husband or the wife dey look people wey naked.		Some marriages have been strained or even ruined by a mate 's addiction to pornography.
Something don make you no do good to people before?		Have you held back from offering hospitality?
Sometimes, church leaders and government don try make people no read Bible.		At times, very powerful forces have tried to keep the Bible from the common people.
THAT time, things no too de change for my town.		DURING my school years, not much changed.
That time, na only about 20 publishers dey the group.		For some 20 years, Irene has worked hard in that language field.
The brother talk sey: " I first dey fear sey we no go fit do am because e never too tey wey I marry, and our house small.		He writes: " I hesitated initially because we were newly married and living in a small house.
The brothers want really help me learn am. I like how dem take dey sofri tell me whether I speak am well or I no speak am well.		The brothers wanted to help me learn, and I appreciated their patience and honest comments.
The next day, the man wife come greet Haykanush and im husband for house. E dash dem one diamond ring to show sey the family happy for wetin dem do.		The next day, the wife visited the couple at home and as a token of the family 's appreciation insisted that Haykanush accept a diamond ring.
The one wey fit surprise person pass be sey, no be only sey dem no dey pay dem for this work but dem dey even happy to use their own money do the work.		Amazingly, not only do they go unpaid for their work but they also gladly cover their own expenses.
They send us go the congregation wey black people dey, and na around 14 publishers they get.		We were sent to the " colored " congregation, which had only about 14 publishers.
Till today, some people still dey use hand mold things. Dem dey sofri mold am.		To this day, some pottery is still made by hand, the potter working very closely with his material.
To know why dey let this kind thing happen, go check " Questions From Readers " ( Question From People Wey Dey Read Our Book ) wey dey September 15, 2014, Watchtower, p.		paragraph 12 ) To understand why at times might allow a Christian to lack sufficient food, see " Questions From Readers " in the September 15, 2014, issue of The Watchtower, p.
To show sey we no dey do oversabi, e good make we beg to help us so that we no go make serious mistake.		Modestly seeking 's guidance helps us to avoid making grave mistakes.
Today, if person dey gentle and e dey patient, people dey see am as yeye person wey no get power.		In today 's world, people who are mild and patient are often considered weak.
True true, dey show im favor for different different way.		Indeed, 's undeserved kindness is expressed in various ways.
Try comot hand from credit.		Strive to stay out of debt.
We fit give something like Hannah and Samuel? Yes. Na when we use our life serve am, since na im give us life.		Like Hannah and Samuel, Christians today have the privilege of using their lives in dedicated service to their Creator.
We know this one because, our character and how we love God reach no be the same.		This is true even in matters that involve our conduct and worship.
Wetin Robert come do?		And Robert did.
Wetin elders wey dey judge matter dey try to know?		What does a judicial committee endeavor to discern?
Wetin go help us use our freedom well?		What can we do to make wise use of our freedom?
Wetin happen to that sister don happen to you before?		Can you understand that sister 's feelings?
Wetin help dem?		How did they manage to do that?
Wetin make us dey sure sey God people go comot hand from Babylon the Great, and which question dem we go talk about?		On what basis could God 's people hope to be liberated from Babylon the Great, and what questions will we examine?
Wetin that Bible verse talk about Meroz happen.		Meroz was evidently cursed so effectively that it is difficult to say with certainty what it was.
Wetin we go talk about for the next topic?		What will we discuss in the next article?
Wetin we go talk about now, and why?		What account will we now consider, and why?
When I prepare, I fit tell them wetin go really benefit them. "		When I am prepared, I can talk to them about what will specifically benefit them. "
When tell Noah make e build ark, Noah no know how to build am because e never build ark before.		When told him to build the ark, Noah could not rely on experience.
When all this things don comot, nothing go worry or disturb us again!		Think of the anxiety that will no longer trouble our mind and heart.
When we dey read or dey study Bible, e good make we ask ourself this kind question, ' Wetin this place wey I read teach me about the kind person wey be, how e dey do things and wetin e think? '		When reading or studying God 's Word, we might ask ourselves, ' What does this material reveal about, his righteous ways, and his thinking? '
Which example for Bible time and our time fit help us?		What examples from both Bible times and our time can help us to find the comfort we need?
Which good thing we fit do if we want help people wey them de suffer?		How can we in a positive way channel our desire for justice?
Why nobody go fit rule like?		Why is 's rulership the best possible?
Make we no forget say people fit change.		Third, we try to see a potential for good in people.
Our preaching fit be blessing, or gift, to the people wey gree hear am.		Our ministry can be a blessing, or a gift, to those who respond.
When we look all this one, e help us know sey really get us for mind.		When reading the qualifications for elders, how can we apply the information in our own life?
One day, e come hear Jesus dey preach about God Kingdom. Wetin e hear sweet am well well. So, e no waste time stop the bad things wey e dey do.		Yet, when that unrighteous man heard Jesus preach about the Kingdom, he recognized the excelling value of what he was hearing and took immediate action.
As John 15: 9, 10 talk - am, why we de preach?		What reason for preaching is mentioned at John 15: 9, 10?
Wetin we go do to get life wey no go end?		What is the only path to life?
Dem go bear am if people for their family dey laugh dem or pursue dem comot for house. This one go make Jesus happy with dem.		In order to prove worthy of the Christ, his disciples have had to endure ridicule or even alienation from their families.
Wetin we go do to gain from the work wey elders dey do?		How can we benefit from the " gifts in men " in the congregation?
Wear the New Character and No Pull Am		How We Put On and Keep On the New Personality
As all of us wey dey serve join hand for this preaching, our preaching go be like dew wey dey cool body and wey good for life. - w16.04, p.		The combined effort of God 's people in the ministry is similar. - w16.04, p.
Rev. 12: 9 ) But make we no fear Satan. Some things dey wey e no fit do.		But there is no need to be overly anxious about the Devil - his power is limited.
Wetin fit show sey we don dey feel sey we better pass other people?		What might indicate that we are harboring prejudice or racial pride?
After, I come go Madrid again because of work and I come marry for there.		Later, I went back to Madrid for work and then got married.
After, dem come translate the rest.		Translation of the rest of the Hebrew Scriptures was completed in the second century B.C.E.
After some time, the government for that African country accept make we de build Kingdom Hall.		Some time later, the government of that African country lifted its building restrictions.
And Jacob know sey na through im family go do wetin e promise Abraham. So e make sure sey e take care of im family well. ( Gen.		He had faith in the promise made to Abraham and devoted himself to caring for the family who would play a special role in the outworking of 's purpose.
And all of us know sey serious problem dey wait for us for front.		We all knew that severe trials lay ahead.
And e go judge dem when great tribulation come. E go separate people wey be like sheep from people wey be like goat. People wey be like sheep go save; people wey be like goat go die.		He makes his final judgment during the time of the great tribulation, separating the sheeplike ones, who will survive, from the goatlike ones, who will be destroyed.
And make we no forget sey Ananias and im wife die because dem lie.		And Ananias and his wife lost their lives because of lying.
And nobody go fit run comot from the wahala wey dem cause.		None of us can now escape the disorder that their rebellion unleashed.
And pikin wey get bad belle for im papa or mama no go like to near dem.		Yet, in his heart he may be resentful, which could cause him to draw away from his parents.
Apostle John write sey: ' The person wey dey show sey e get faith for the Son get life wey no go end; the person wey dey do wetin the Son no like no go see life, but God go always dey vex with am. '		The apostle John wrote: " The one who exercises faith in the Son has everlasting life; the one who disobeys the Son will not see life, but the wrath of God remains upon him. "
Around that time, my papa and mama come sey make I come house.		About that time, my parents asked me to come back home.
Before Paul talk wetin dey 2 Corinthians 3: 17, e first talk about how Moses face be after angel talk to am for Mount Sinai. When Moses come down from the mountain, im face come dey shine like light.		Earlier in this letter to the Corinthians, Paul spoke of the glory of Moses when he descended from Mount Sinai after being in the presence of an angel of.
Better friend like am when una dey gist together.		A good friend shares his time with you.
Bible get power no be small! We happy sey don give us Bible. So e good make we use am well.		Because God 's Word is such a powerful tool and we have it at our disposal, we surely want to make the best use of it.
Bible talk sey, ' throne dey on top wetin correct, and e dey rule well. ' This one make us dey sure sey, all the law wey give us correct. ( Ps.		Righteousness and justice are the foundation of [ his ] throne, " so we can be confident that all of his laws, principles, and decisions are righteous.
Bible tell us sey " all the people come stop to dey fear as dem hear wetin Hezekiah " talk. - Read 2 Chronicles 32: 6 - 8.		And the people were strengthened by [ his ] words. " - Read 2 Chronicles 32: 6 - 8.
Bible tell us sey God " sabi the number of hair wey dey " our head.		Even the hairs of your head are all numbered " by him.
Bible tell us sey Paul ' use all im time dey talk to the Jews about Jesus. '		We read that Paul was " intensely occupied with the word. "
But Nathan na God messenger.		But Nathan was a spokesman for God.
But as time dey go, dem come dey understand. Dem later allow Brother Diehl do the work wey im dey do before for organization.		Eventually, the mistaken view regarding marriage that prompted the injustice was corrected, and Brother Diehl 's privileges of service were restored.
But the person no go die if e follow wetin God don put for ground.		Help was available to the unintentional manslayer, but he had to seek out and accept that help.
But the truth be sey na from many small small contribution organization dey see the money wey dem dey use.		Yet, the majority of donated funds today come from many small gifts rather than from a few large ones.
Check the topic " Raising a Child With Down Syndrome - The Challenge and the Reward " for June 2011 Awake!		See the article " Raising a Child With Down Syndrome - The Challenge and the Reward " in Awake! of June 2011.
Dem no go dey force their family do things.		Instead, they will imitate.
Dem put body for the work wey give dem. Dem build the ark, gather food for theirself and the animal, and tell people wetin God talk.		They chose to keep busy in all that had assigned them to do - build the ark, store up food for themselves and the animals, and sound the warning to others.
Dem ready to do wetin dem promise so far dem still be special full - time servant. Wetin we go make sure sey we dey do, and why?		They realize the seriousness of humbly living up to their solemn vow for as long as they remain in special full - time service.
E dey 12 years when e baptize. This sister talk sey: " I believe sey na we suppose thank pass any other person.		A teenager named Abigail, who got baptized at age 12, says: " I feel that deserves our thanks more than anyone else in the universe.
E get some wey dey do wetin dem call missionary work, but after small time dem go stop.		Others engage in so - called missionary activities for a limited time and then go back to their normal routine.
E know sey life no easy for dem because of the many enemy wey surround dem.		He understood the pressures they faced as they were surrounded by enemies.
E use Tony and Wendy, one husband and wife wey dey their congregation.		Yes, but how? Through Tony and Wendy, a couple in the congregation who made an apartment available to them.
Even with that one, we still de praise our Papa as one family. ( Rev.		However, this does not prevent us from offering united praise to our Father,.
Every year wey e come, e dey bring new boot come for me.		Each year she would bring me a new pair of boots.
For 1952, I happy well well when dem invite me come the 20th class of Gilead School for United States. We be seven for Philippines wey dem invite.		In 1952, along with six others from the Philippines, I was thrilled to receive an invitation to the 20th class of Gilead School.
For Bethel I do office work, I pack book, I cook, and I clean.		My days were filled with office duties, packing literature, cooking, and cleaning.
For ten years wey don pass now, many publishers from 11 country * don dey go Madagascar. E don pass 70 publishers and pioneers wey go this place for Africa.		Over the past ten years, more than 70 zealous publishers and pioneers from 11 countries * have come to serve in this fruitful field in Africa, where many people respect the Bible.
Governing Body dey put body for the work make people for everywhere hear the good news about God Kingdom.		The faithful slave has exercised outstanding faith by zealously promoting and spreading the Kingdom good news.
Hezekiah na another king wey ' hold tight. '		To become known as a king who " held fast to, " Hezekiah, unlike Jehoshaphat, had to overcome the bad influence of an idolatrous father.
How Jesus and im disciple dem take preach?		What methods did Jesus and his disciples use to preach?
How the Law wey give Israel people that time take protect dem?		How did the Mosaic Law protect the Israelites?
How the pikin feel?		How did the son feel?
I come phone dem back and tell dem sey we go happy well well to go.		I called back and said that we would be very happy to make ourselves available for this wonderful privilege.
I dey allow money and property make me no support work as I suppose to?		Am I allowing undue emphasis on material interests to interfere with my volunteer spirit?
If Daniel want hide pray make nobody see am, e for hide.		Of course, he could have prayed discreetly so as not to be observed.
If na so e be for you, you go fit learn something from the way take treat Israel people.		Why not pause to reflect on 's dealings with Israel.
If na wetin dey your mind be that, you no think sey you need to check the things wey you dey use your time do?		If that is your situation, it may be that you need to examine your current schedule of activities.
If person no put eye down well, e fit stop to love Jesus Christ and start to comot mind for God work small small.		We need to be careful not to allow our love for Christ to weaken and let ourselves be distracted from Kingdom interests.
If we ' love God, ' we go show our brothers and sisters love, especially when dem get serious problem.		The love of God " compels us to show love to one another, especially in dire situations.
dey happy when we dey use our time and power do im work. E still like am when we dey help our brothers and sisters.		Clearly, is pleased when we use our time and energy to promote Kingdom interests and assist fellow believers.
Jesus know sey na so e go still be for many of im disciples. For this world wey mago - mago full, e go hard many of dem to see work wey dem go take feed theirself and their family.		Jesus knew that like the steward who found himself in a difficult situation, most of Jesus ' followers would need to make a living in this unjust commercial world.
Joseph dey alive when Jesus dey 12 years.		The last mention of Joseph was when Jesus was 12 years old.
KING JEROBOAM wey rule Israel one time, no worship. Na other god e worship. come send one prophet go tell am how E go take judge am.		SOMETIME during King Jeroboam 's reign, sent a certain prophet from Judah to deliver a scathing judgment message to that apostate king of Israel.
Make dem dey think about all the good things wey their papa and mama don do for dem. This one go make pikin value wetin dem do for am, and e go ready to obey im papa and mama.		An appreciative attitude is bolstered by the understanding that obedience is required by God, the Father of us all.
Make we serve am because e be better Person and na im suppose rule us.		If we love and serve him because of his goodness and because of his being the rightful Sovereign of the universe, then such a devilish claim will be repulsive.
Many of us know wetin Bible talk about wetin God get for mind for this earth and for human being. We still know how go use Jesus do wetin e get for mind.		No doubt, we are familiar with Bible truths about God 's purpose for the earth and mankind and about the central role of Jesus Christ in the outworking of God 's purpose.
Many people dey talk sey: " Na work wey go make you get plenty money go make you happy. "		Pursuing a career is the key to happiness.
Maria run comot from the hospital, because e no want make anything happen to the pikin.		To protect the unborn child, Maria ran away from the hospital.
Maurizio come talk sey: ' Na better mind make Gianni want help me.		Maurizio adds: " Gianni was sincere - and he was right.
Na Nehemiah carry Israel people go build Jerusalem wall. Apart from that one, e arrange Levite wey go dey sing and play music.		When Nehemiah led the faithful Israelites in rebuilding the walls of Jerusalem, he also organized the Levite singers with full instrumental accompaniment.
Na because, before wetin promise am go happen, e go tey.		Simply stated, the fulfillment of the promise would take time.
Na many times Bible use hand as example.		The hand, for example, is mentioned hundreds of times.
Na only fit control imself finish.		is the supreme example of self - control.
Na the fish and the business e like pass, or na Jesus and the things wey Jesus teach?		Did he have greater affection for the fish and the fishing business than for Jesus and the things that he taught?
Na true sey to train people no easy and e dey chop time.		Of course, training people takes time and effort.
Na wetin e mean be this: People wey dey follow am go face wahala.		His message could divide people.
Now, dem be missionary for Mozambique.		Today, they are serving as missionaries in Mozambique.
One husband and wife for South Africa talk sey when dem carry their two girls go farm, dem use the chance talk about how seed take dey grow.		When gardening with their two girls, a couple in South Africa point to aspects such as the marvels of how seeds germinate and then plants grow.
Other things for life don take my time sotey I no come dey too get time to pray and read Bible? '		Have I become so preoccupied with the everyday affairs of life that I spend less time praying or reading the Bible? '
Paul write this letter because e no want make the brothers follow wetin people dey talk, or join dem dey do bad things. - Col.		The letter was aimed at helping the brothers to reject worldly thinking and wrong practices. - Col.
Person wey know something dey learn things.		A person who has knowledge takes in information, or facts.
Peter later talk some things wey go help us.		Peter, in fact, later spelled out specific things we can work on.
Preaching for that area really sweet!		Service was so much fun!
See chapter 25 of the book wey dem dey call Questions Young People Ask - Answers That Work, Volume 1.		See chapter 25 in the book Questions Young People Ask - Answers That Work, Volume 1.
Shebna and another person still follow Eliakim go meet dem.		Eliakim was sent to speak to the officials, but he was not alone.
So, wetin be some things wey fit cause ' problem ' for marriage?		What, then, are some of the realities that may bring on the ' tribulation in the flesh ' that Paul mentioned?
So, whether na people wey contribute or people wey dem use the contribution help, all of dem fit be friend.		Thus, 's friendship is being freely extended to both the givers and the receivers.
Sylviana ( left ) and Sylvie Ann ( right ) with Doratine for the day wey e baptize		Sylviana ( left ) and Sylvie Ann ( right ) with Doratine on the day of her baptism
The brothers and sisters wey come from other country, really enjoy this preaching.		The foreign participants thoroughly enjoyed the preaching work.
The second week after I start to preach from house - to - house, I come meet one woman wey dey around 30 years.		During my second week in the door - to - door ministry, I met a woman in her 30 ' s with whom I began to study the Bible.
The sister still talk sey: " We give dem our phone number and we self collect their own. This one make am easy for dem to call us for congregation matter or for any other thing.		We exchanged phone numbers, " she adds, " so we could be reached and included in spiritual and other activities. "
The ten - tribe kingdom where Jeroboam de rule begin worship idols. So plenty people from there, begin travel go Jerusalem so that they fit serve the way e want - am. And this people support Rehoboam. ( 2 Chron.		As the ten - tribe kingdom of Israel under Jeroboam sank into idolatry, many from there " supported Rehoboam " by traveling to Jerusalem to take their stand for true worship.
The town dey about 850 miles ( 1,370 km ) for the north side from the place wey my mama de stay.		Later, she shipped me off to my father at Peshawar, a town some 850 miles ( 1,370 km ) to the north.
Think about how you and your family fit take do wetin you learn.		Try to grasp how they apply to you and your family.
This brother suffer well well when Nazi government put am for prison.		He had endured dreadful experiences in Nazi concentration camps.
Two special pioneer for Benguela dey use sign language study the brochure Listen to God Make You Live Forever, with one deaf person.		In the city of Benguela, special pioneers are conducting a Bible study in sign language, using the brochure Listen to God and Live Forever.
We go see this one for the next vision wey Zechariah see.		Zechariah 's next vision guarantees this bright hope.
We happy for the chance wey give us to dey part of im organization.		What a privilege it is to be part of 's organization!
We no waste time handle the matter for Kingdom Hall there.		We were able to take care of the matter then and there.
We still get many young pioneer wey dey go preach give people wey dey speak another language.		And many young pioneers help to take the good news to indigenous and foreign - language communities.
We want do wetin like and we want obey im law. Na this one suppose dey our mind when we dey study, and when we dey think about wetin we don learn. ( Ps.		Keep in mind that as we study and meditate, we should do so with the goal of developing a heartfelt desire to please and obey his laws.
Wetin Jesus talk fit help us answer question like: ' Make I go university?		Keeping this principle in mind helps us answer such questions as: ' Should I pursue plans for an advanced education?
Wetin fit make us change wetin we don choose?		Why might we sometimes have to change a decision already made?
Wetin go help us no be like people wey only like enjoyment?		How can we avoid becoming lovers of pleasures?
Wetin we learn about worship wey dey clean for God eye when Ezekiel talk sey people wey dey worship go ' be one? ' ( Ezek.		What important truth about pure worship is highlighted by this prophecy? This: will cause his worshippers to " become one. "
Wetin we talk na wetin God want because na wetin we see for Bible. '		The strictness really proceeds from God, who expresses himself through his written Word. "
When Elisha reach where the pikin dey, e come pray to.		There by the body at the house in Shunem, Elisha prayed.
When Joseph dey 17 years, im life turn upside down finish.		When Joseph was 17 years old, his life was turned completely upside down.
Whether we be anointed or ' other sheep, ' all of us dey wait to see the time wey everything wey God promise go happen, and how e go take make im name holy. ( John 10: 16; Matt.		All of us, whether of the anointed or of the " other sheep, " hope to see the fulfillment of God 's original purpose and the sanctification of 's name.
Which lesson we learn from this story?		What lessons can we learn from this incident?
Why e be sey as we take sabi am now make sense?		Why is this adjusted understanding reasonable?
Why we talk like that?		How so?
You need to get better character wey Christian suppose get to fit serve full - time.		More than anything, spiritual qualities will help you to be successful in serving fully.
holy spirit help dem?		empowered by holy spirit?
Three of us dey talk for phone when one person come talk bye - bye.		I was on a three - person phone call.
How we go take copy and Jesus example when we dey correct people?		When we give discipline, how can we imitate and his Son?
One better thing wey Jesus put mind for, na how e go join people wey go mek God name dey holy and how e go take do wetin go show sey na God be King.		Jesus focused on the rewards of his endurance, most important, that he would have a part in sanctifying God 's name and supporting his right to rule.
Dem go learn many things about wetin get for mind.		Those who attend will learn much regarding God 's purpose.
We go let use our preaching take bless other people?		Will our ministry be a blessing from to others?
How you don take gain from this things?		In what ways have you benefited from these provisions?
Instead of things wey get value for God eye, many people dey gather money and property reach old age. How we go feel if na we be this people?		How would we feel if we reached the end of our life in this world and realized that we had sacrificed true riches for a vast store of this world 's " unrighteous riches "?
You think say e fear to be the next king? Solomon really get sense and people know that one.		Do you imagine that he was apprehensive about following in the footsteps of Solomon, who was known for his extraordinary wisdom?
One thing wey make marriage dey, na for people to full this world.		An important purpose of marriage was to populate the earth.
But e still suffer when e make friend with bad people.		Still, he was not immune to the effect of bad associations.
Paul no dey talk for here sey make people forget their husband or wife.		Paul was not telling married couples to neglect their marital duties.
Abraham think sey, if im obey God, maybe after some hours, one day, or one week, God go just resurrect Isaac?		The Bible does not say that Abraham felt that if he obeyed, in a mere few hours, a day, or a week, Isaac would come back to life.
All this one fit show sey e dey do well.		All of this may indicate that he is making spiritual progress, but does it mean that he has gained wisdom?
And make e no just be only for some brothers and sisters, or only for sometime. - 2 Cor. 6: 11 - 13, ftn.		Could you " widen out, " that is, do it to a greater extent and more consistently? - 2 Cor. 6: 11 - 13, ftn.
And na still bribe even if the government worker no play any wayo wey go favor the person wey give am something.		Such a gift would be considered a bribe, even if the gift did not change the outcome of the official action.
And the way we dey explain am, correct. But if we check from verse one, e go really help us.		However, it is helpful to view Hebrews 4: 12 in its broad context.
Another thing be sey, dem come be enemy because im ' eye too clean to dey look bad thing. '		Moreover, their rebellion resulted in alienation from because his " eyes are too pure to look on what is evil. "
As Jesus talk, we fit even leave our cloth for am. This one mean sey, we go give the person anything wey e want. ( Matt.		It may even require that we give up our inner and outer garments, so to speak.
As we don learn, na only suppose be King, and na only am fit rule us well.		As we have seen, he has the right to rule, and his way of ruling is the best.
As you dey plan, talk with circuit overseer and other pioneer for your circuit.		As you make plans, consult your circuit overseer and the pioneers in your circuit.
Because love us, e don write things for Bible wey they go guide us. This things de direct our conscience so that e fit work well.		has lovingly given us principles that work in conjunction with our Bible - trained conscience.
Because all of us get sin for body, we dey do mistake.		Being imperfect, all of us sin.
Because e no dey carry shoulder up, e follow the better advice wey dem give am.		Humility moved Christoph to accept good advice.
Because of this one, we fit talk sey for where dey, and for " where spirit dey, freedom dey there. "		It stands to reason that in the presence of and " where the spirit of is, " there is freedom.
Before dem fit kill this kind person, dem go call like two people wey see wetin happen. - Num.		If the testimony of was considered, at least two had to substantiate a charge of intentional murder. - Num.
Bible explain wetin faith be for Hebrews 11: 1.		The Bible 's description of faith is found at Hebrews 11: 1.
Bible talk say Noah " preach about wetin good. "		In the Bible, Noah is described as " a preacher. "
Boaz na big man for Israel.		Daughter.
Book dem for people wey no be Witness.		Material for the public.
But, their mind dey come down and their belle dey sweet dem when dem come our meeting. This one go make dem quick talk about us sey: ' God dey with una true true. ' - Matt.		Many who are " loaded down " are finding spiritual refreshment at our meetings and quickly acknowledge: " God is really among you. " - Matt.
But after Jesus die and God resurrect am, the meaning of baptism come change.		However, after Jesus ' death and resurrection, baptism would take on a much different meaning for his followers.
But even with all this wahala, dem no lose hope.		Despite such adversities, a positive spirit was maintained.
Dannykarl talk sey: " Almost all the people wey dey the Kingdom Hall na Japan people, but dem welcome me well. The way dem take welcome me come be like sey e don tey wey we know each other. "		Almost all in attendance were Japanese, " says Dannykarl, " yet they gave me a warm welcome, as if they were my old acquaintances. "
Dem do everything wey dem fit do to make wetin dem dey talk reach my heart.		They did their best to reach my heart.
Dem first stand for where ' the Lord wey get the whole earth ' dey.		They are going out from " before the Lord of the whole earth " with a special mission to fulfill.
Dem really like am, this one dey make dem happy to learn and e dey give dem mind.		They had fun learning in this way, and it gave them confidence.
Dem tell dem to cut the rope dem wey hold one banner, and dem need to cut dem once.		They had instructions to cut several cords simultaneously to release a banner.
Different different way wey take dey show us favor: We don get the chance to hear the good news ( Check paragraph 11 )		Expressions of God 's undeserved kindness: The privilege of hearing the good news ( See paragraph 11 )
E carry the book begin read am.		He picked it up from the pile and read it.
E no easy for servant to live for Satan world. People today dey think about only theirself.		Living in this system of things is not easy for any of 's servants.
E preach for about 30 years, and e help plenty people come be Christian. ( Acts 14: 21; 2 Cor.		During his approximately 30 - year - long ministry, he helped numerous individuals to become disciples of Christ.
E stop to obey, and e begin serve idol!		He abandoned the law of in favor of pagan worship!
For 1933, dem do two convention for the country. One for Veracruz the other one for Mexico City.		The following year saw not one but two conventions held in the country, one in the port city of Veracruz and one in Mexico City.
For example, King Solomon know many things about.		Ancient King Solomon had a lot of knowledge about 's ways.
For example, for Genesis we learn sey Cain kill Abel ( Gen.		Consider just the first few chapters of Genesis.
For example, we fit want make other people feel sey we get level because of wetin we dey do, wetin we know, or people wey we know for organization.		We might drop hints, for example, implying that we enjoy special privileges, possess inside information, or have special relationships with responsible brothers.
For my congregation that time, we get Bethelite and people wey don stay Bethel before.		Some brothers in our congregation were or had been members of the Bethel family.
For this last days, people " no go want agree for anything, " as Bible talk. ( 2 Tim.		As the Bible foretold, people of all sorts are " not open to any agreement " during these last days.
For this topic, we go talk about this questions: ( 1 ) When Jesus see say people no like other people wey no be their country - people, wetin e do?		In this article, we will consider the following questions: How did Jesus deal with prejudice?
God bring Jesus come life again make e be " the main stone for the corner " ( Check paragraph 8, 9 )		Jesus was resurrected to be " the chief cornerstone " ( See paragraphs 8, 9 )
How fight and quarrel take full everywhere today? And wetin this kind thing don cause?		What attitude spread throughout the world, and what has been the result?
How our meeting take dey help us learn about?		How does meeting together help us to learn about?
How this one take concern the way we dey serve am and the way we dey treat our brothers and sisters?		How does that affect our relationship with him and with fellow worshippers?
How we come take get this sin wey dey kill all of us?		How did humans inherit the sinful, dying condition that plagues us all?
If e want make wetin e dey preach touch people mind, e suppose dey change the style wey e take dey teach because people different.		To continue reaching their hearts, he had to adapt his teaching methods to their needs.
If we no dey careful, we fit fall for their trap, and use our freedom anyhow. Wetin apostle Peter talk still concern other matter wey serious pass the one wey we talk before.		The counsel by Peter also applies to more serious aspects of life, such as a person 's choice of education, employment, or career.
command the king dem for Israel sey make dem copy im Law for theirself and dey read am every day.		required that the kings of Israel write for themselves a copy of God 's Law and read it daily.
still use brothers and sister give dem other things wey dem need.		Through their spiritual brothers, they received relief supplies.
Make we talk about some of dem.		There could be a number of reasons.
Memorial time: The month before Memorial, the Memorial month and the month after Memorial.		Memorial season: The period of time before, during, and shortly after the Memorial.
Na true sey na you be the head of the family, but want make you dey show love like Jesus Christ.		God expects you to exercise headship lovingly, in imitation of Jesus.
Na wetin happen to Damaris be that. When this sister dey young, e choose wetin e go do about one serious matter.		That is what Damaris experienced when she faced an important decision as a teenager.
Na wetin happen to Mirjana be that. When this sister still dey young, e sabi sport no be small.		This is the case with Mirjana, who as a teenager was very talented at sports.
One Monday after our Watchtower Study for night, we see wetin surprise us.		After our Watchtower Study one Monday night, we had an unexpected visitor.
One thing be sey science and other people dey make people think sey God no dey and sey life come by imself.		Partly because numerous scientists and others tend to promote godless thinking and endorse the theory of evolution.
Person fit contribute money, and talk sey branch office go give am back if e need am.		Donations of cash with the condition that it can be returned if needed by the donor.
Person wey sabi control imself dey know how to correct the way e dey think and behave.		Self - discipline includes exercising control over ourselves in order to improve in our behavior and thinking.
Pray about am and try to do wetin you fit do to change.		Then pray about it, and strive to see how you can improve.
Ready to beg the person, because you fit still get hand for wetin cause the problem.		And be open to the possibility that in some way you may have contributed to the rift.
So, e no really mean sey na for 1918 fake religion start to control people.		So it does not really seem that 's people entered into captivity to Babylon the Great in 1918.
So I come start to dey put mind again for how I go take serve. "		As a result, I redirected my focus to serving. "
So we really put body for our new work. We surprise sey the first place wey dem send us go na the same Bethel wey our pikin with their husband dey for Malawi.		Much to our delight, our first assignment was to the Malawi branch, where our daughters and their husbands were serving.
That time, my wife enter bus dey go market, e come hear wetin one woman dey tell person about death and resurrection.		My wife wanted to hear more, so she asked the woman for her name and address.
The Hebrew Scriptures use the title Satan only 18 times, but the Christian Greek Scriptures use - am pass 30 times.		Satan is mentioned by that name only 18 times in the Hebrew Scriptures but more than 30 times in the Christian Greek Scriptures.
The brother see sey dem need coconut.		That is practical wisdom.
The main thing wey this kind person dey always think about na im position, im money, or how e go take do wetin dey im mind even if other people no like am.		A physical, or fleshly - minded, person is often excessively concerned about prestige and material pursuits or about defending what he feels are his rights.
The truth be sey, even before World War I for 1914 people don dey comot for fake religion hand, no be sey na that time fake religion start to control dem.		The facts show, however, that in the decades leading up to World War I, God 's anointed servants were actually breaking free from Babylon the Great, not becoming enslaved to it.
The truth be sey, the Bible Students preach well well for World War I ( 1914 - 1918 ).		In actual fact, the Bible Students who were on hand during World War I ( 1914 - 1918 ) gave a tremendous witness during that time.
They talk say, " No! "		The answer was an emphatic, " No! "
This laws de protect us so that sin no go put us for trouble. And e de help us live better life.		In like manner, our Creator has given us laws that can protect us from the damaging effects of sin and thus improve our life.
This letter wey apostle John write give Gaius na the book wey small pass for Bible. Na Greek language e use write am and na 219 word dey inside.		With only 219 words in its Greek text, the letter from the apostle John to Gaius is the shortest book in the Bible.
This na one better way don take show us sey e good.		It is by being invited to draw close to God and his Son.
This one mean sey we go dey drive and work well.		We must drive and work safely, even when we are building, maintaining, or traveling to places of worship.
Try to see if e really ready.		Those are issues that one is likely to face after baptism.
We dey know the kind person wey God be from the things wey e make, and this one dey make our faith strong ( Check paragraph 17 )		Our faith is strengthened when we see God 's invisible qualities in the visible creation ( See paragraph 17 )
We dey stay together, we dey study Bible together and we dey work together.		We live together, study the Bible together, and work together.
We fit put am as part of our plan to dey talk to young people before meeting, or after meeting.		What about making it a point - before or after a meeting - to talk with a young person, manifesting your genuine interest?
Wetin Rehoboam do about this correction?		How did Rehoboam respond to that message of discipline?
Wetin be one thing wey we fit do to make people strong?		What is one step we can take to encourage others?
Wetin dem write na: " Eshba 'al Ben [ son of ] Beda ' ( Eshba 'al Ben na Beda ' pikin ). "		It read: " Eshba 'al Ben [ son of ] Beda '. "
Wetin matter pass na the love wey you show people.		Let love motivate your hospitality, and you need not worry.
Wetin we fit do to like Bible more more?		How can we enhance our love for Bible truth?
Wetin we fit learn from this one?		The lesson?
Wetin we go do if we want make wetin we dey learn from Bible continue to change us?		What can we do to let God 's Word keep on changing our life?
Wetin we go talk about?		What aspect of the resurrection will we first address?
Wetin you don learn from this topic?		What have you learned from this discussion on being a spiritual person?
When the elders don know everything wey happen, dem no go only put eye for wetin e do, but dem go think about the person.		Thus, after establishing the facts of the case, the elders had to look at the person, not just the action.
When they born pikin, they go need to circumcise the pikin when eight days reach. This one good because this time, wound de cover quick. - wp18.1, p.		Circumcision was to be done on the eighth day of life, which was ideal with regard to the blood 's ability to clot. - wp18.1, p.
When they give me my invitation, I no get money, I just de struggle because I no get work.		When I got the invitation, though, I was unemployed and struggling financially.
When we dey choose wetin we go do.		Making decisions.
Which other trap Satan de use, and wetin go help us no fall for the trap?		What is another effective bait that Satan uses, and how can we avoid it?
Why e be sey love and faith dey good?		Why are both faith and love important?
Why we fit talk sey we dey give wetin we suppose give am when we go meeting?		How does attending meetings help us to give what he deserves?
You be missionary or you dey preach for another country where Witness people no plenty, or you don join congregation wey dey use another language for your country?		Are you perhaps serving as a missionary or a need - greater in a foreign land, or have you begun attending meetings in a foreign - language congregation in your homeland?
You don make me happy well well because of the things wey you do, O. I dey use all my heart sing because of the things wey you take your hand do. "		For you have made me rejoice, O, because of your deeds; because of the works of your hands I shout joyfully. "
You go still see where dem write " worksheet ".		and its accompanying worksheet on jw.org.
Do everything to praise God. ' - 1 COR.		Do all things for God 's glory. " - 1 COR.
John don first talk about God ( check verse 6 ); so, na name e fit dey talk about when e sey ' because of im name. '		John had just referred to God ( see verse 6 ), so the expression " in behalf of his name " appears to refer to 's name.
If we see sey e no easy to change some kind character, which question fit come our mind?		When making progress is harder than we expected, what questions might we ask?
This change bring plenty fight among the people for different religion. Because of this one, plenty people comot from the place wey them de stay go settle for other place.		This event triggered widespread religious violence among the people, resulting in one of the largest mass migrations in history.
And when Jesus dey grow, Mary put eye for the things wey happen to am. Mary listen well to the better things wey Jesus dey talk.		As time passed, Mary carefully noted what took place in Jesus ' life and paid attention to the words of wisdom he spoke.
All this things wey happen show Martha sey God get power pass death.		God definitely has power over death. And reflect on what they should mean to you.
How slave life be for Babylon?		What was life like for exiles there?
Tim. 6: 3 - 5 ) We don notice sey the name wey some people dey use for their website and for social media na the organization name, Governing Body name, and Governing Body member name.		It has also been observed that fraudulent social media accounts and websites have been created in the name of the organization, the Governing Body, and its individual members.
Story About People Life - I Come Be ' Everything to Everybody '		Life Story - Becoming " All Things to People of All Sorts "
Why e be like that? Na because God make us to dey do wetin e want.		Because we were created to " fear the true God and keep his commandments, for this is the whole obligation of man. "
Tim. 1: 1, 2, 7 ) But after ten years, Paul tell the congregation wey dey Philippi sey: " I dey hope for the Lord Jesus sey I go soon send Timothy to una.		Yet, a decade later, Paul could tell the congregation in Philippi: " I am hoping in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy to you shortly.
E good make we no let ' things wey don get root ' for this world affect us.		It is vital that we resist being affected by the world 's " strongly entrenched things. "
Wetin be another reason why we de preach?		What further reason for preaching do we have?
Luke 1: 19; Rev. 12: 7 ) Because give name to all the stars ( Ps. 147: 4 ), this one make us believe say all the angel get name, and even Satan get name.		Since has named each of the stars, it is reasonable to assume that all of his angelic sons, including the one who became Satan, also have personal names.
After Jesus die for us, God resurrect am go heaven where e give am more work. God make am King and e give am power wey pass other power. ( Eph.		After his sacrificial death, Jesus was resurrected to heaven where he was given more work to do with authority " far above every government and authority and power and lordship. "
After Paul don tell the brothers for Colossae about the better hope wey dem get, e come sey: ' So make una kill the different different part of una body where things like this dey: all sex matter wey no clean for God eye, to dey do wetin no clean, to dey hungry to sleep with person wey no be una husband or wife, to dey hungry to do bad thing, to get long throat. ' ( Col. 3: 5 ) E easy to fall for sex matter wey no clean for God eye.		After reminding his brothers of their marvelous hope, Paul wrote: " Deaden, therefore, your body members that are on the earth as respects sexual immorality, uncleanness, uncontrolled sexual passion, hurtful desire, and greediness. "
As time dey go, e come see sey fight fight dey the sport, and e fit even put person life for danger.		In time, however, he discovered that the sport was violent, even dangerous.
Because they don know plenty things, they fit see say better thing no go come out of wetin we want do.		Clearly, there is often wisdom in listening to older, spiritually mature ones.
Bible no too plenty that time and e cost.		Copies of the Bible were rare and expensive.
But no be like that. Even though sey e no dey make mistake, e understand everything about us! - Isa.		does not experience such shortcomings himself; yet, his understanding of us is immeasurable, unsearchable! - Isa.
But if e leave im husband, make e no marry instead make e settle with im husband; and make husband no leave im wife. ' ( 1 Cor.		But if she does separate, let her remain unmarried or else be reconciled with her husband; and a husband should not leave his wife. "
But no be so e be with human being.		Not so with a man.
But now na Paul, one young brother wey dey work with am before, come be the overseer.		Now Paul, a younger man who had worked alongside Peter for several years, cares for that responsibility.
But that one no be real love. The person fit get another thing for mind.		Thus, our love must be " without hypocrisy, " or " free from hypocrisy. "
Didier smile as e remember the time when e start to learn Malagasy language.		Didier smiles as he recalls the time when he began to learn Malagasy.
Do wetin you dey pray for.		Act on your prayers.
E even talk sey make God tell am why e dey suffer.		He became absorbed in establishing his own righteousness, even demanding a reason for his suffering.
E fit be say after we check, we go need to struggle to remove any sign of partial, like this sisters.		Might we personally need to fight some feelings of prejudice, as do these two sisters?
E get many work wey you fit do for.		There are many opportunities to serve.
E good make we know how to treat other people well. E no good to feel sey we better pass dem. - w17.01, p.		We need to be aware of how our behavior can affect others and not take ourselves too seriously. - w17.01, p.
E no come give people things like food or clothes. But e come teach people about God.		He had come to bring spiritual, not material, benefits to the nation.
E teach us some small small things about how to drive boat; things like, how to carry the cloth go up and how to bring am come down, how to go where you want go, and how to dodge strong breeze wey want blow your boat face another road.		He taught us some basic seamanship, such as how to raise and lower the various sails, how to maintain a compass bearing, and how to tack against the wind.
E want make I be friend again and e no ever leave me.		He cared deeply about my spiritual recovery and never abandoned me.
Even though sey e no easy for me, I talk sey I go ask am.		I decided to approach him, although it was extremely difficult for me to do so.
For 1942, three of us come give our life and we baptize.		The following year, the three of us dedicated our lives to and got baptized.
For another time, Jesus talk say the preaching work dey like to plant and harvest. - Matt.		On other occasions, Jesus used the examples of sowing and reaping to illustrate the disciple - making work. - Matt.
For wetin! We still dey talk. So make we no stop to use song praise even if our voice no sweet.		So why should we let our imperfect singing voices stop us from praising in song?
From there we come dey talk with each other for some time, we come sabi ourself, and later we come marry.		We corresponded for some time and later married.
How fit use im organization mold us as we take need help?		How can use the Christian congregation to mold us according to our individual needs?
How prayer fit help us get strong faith?		How can prayer strengthen our faith?
How we fit show sey we like preaching well well?		What are some ways that we can demonstrate our appreciation for the ministry?
How you fit help your children believe wetin dem dey learn from Bible?		How can you help your children to be persuaded to believe what they learn from God 's Word?
I come know sey I need to change the way I dey think.		I realized that I had to adjust my thinking.
If e no dey hard my classmate to talk about wetin dem dey do, e no suppose hard me to tell dem wetin I believe.		My classmates talk freely about the things that they do. I should feel free to do the same.
If person stop to allow God spirit direct am, e go start to copy the way people for this world dey think and behave.		If a person loses his spirituality, he creates a moral vacuum and the polluted " air " of this world will rush in.
If we do everything wey we fit do for God work, we go see by ourself sey good.		We personally " taste and see that is good " as we do all we can in his service.
If we know where we suppose do reach, how e go take help us when people talk wetin we no do?		How can modesty help us to cope with unfair criticism?
If we love and our brothers, we go do everything to make sure sey nothing spoil the peace wey dey the congregation.		If we love and our brothers, we will do all we can to keep personal differences from disturbing or diminishing the peace of God 's people.
go bless wetin we don choose, or e fit help us change am. - Prov.		That gives something to bless, or he can gently redirect our goals. - Prov.
spirit dey give freedom wey pass the kind freedom wey any person fit get. E fit free us from sin and death.		Far beyond what human efforts can hope to achieve, the spirit of brings liberation from enslavement to sin and death, as well as from slavery to false worship and its practices.
Jesus Christ talk sey " na the good news dem go first preach for the whole world. "		Jesus Christ stressed that " the good news has to be preached first. "
Make we love our neighbor as we love ourself.		We are to love our neighbor as ourselves.
Make we no leave dem for there.		They need to be shown the way out.
Make we see one example.		An example from the past helps us to find the answer.
Many people don see sey if dem get open hand, dey bless dem. - Ps.		Many have learned that generosity is spiritually enriching. - Ps.
Na true sey people fit see am as bribe if Christian give person money to get wetin e no suppose get. But e get sometimes wey Christian fit give something to person wey help dem do work to take show sey dem like the work wey e do or so that e no go delay the work.		While mature Christians recognize that gift - giving to obtain an unlawful favor could be tantamount to bribery, local circumstances and sensibilities may allow some to offer a small token of appreciation to receive a legitimate service or to avoid unfair delay.
No let that one make you leave.		Do not let yourself be stumbled.
Now, na wetin dem want use their life do be that.		Now this is their goal.
Our enemy na Satan.		Satan is our enemy.
Paul advise Christians for im time make dem ' kill the different different part for their body. ' That one mean sey we go comot hand from anything wey fit make us put hand for ' sex matter wey no clean for God eye. '		Paul told fellow Christians to " deaden " their " body members " - that is, to eliminate any desires - " as respects sexual immorality. "
Person must be firstborn before the Messiah go come from im family?		With More Zeal and Love Than Ever ' ( 1922 convention ), May
Rome government get power well well that time. But na slave dem use do many things wey dem do.		Yet, much of the power and glory of the Roman Empire was built on the backs of slaves.
SONG: 151, 147		SONGS: 151, 147
See one thing wey happen for one place wey dem dey call St.		Note this experience from the Caribbean island of St.
So, the apostles fit dey think for their mind sey, ' go give us another leader? '		Hence, the apostles might have wondered, ' Will now appoint a new leader? '
So, to me any preacher na weak person.		To my way of thinking, preachers were not manly enough.
The church leaders for there tell young people to dey stone the missionary house wey we dey stay. And the house don already start to dey spoil before.		There the clergy incited young people to throw rocks at our missionary home, which was already not in the best condition.
The man send im servants go meet the people wey dey work for am for im farm. The people wey dey work for the farm no treat the servant dem well.		He gave a parable in which cultivators mistreated those whom the owner sent to them, just as the Israelites mistreated the prophets whom God sent to them.
The name already dey holy.		It is already sacred, or holy, in the absolute sense.
The pikin go come know sey na e dey obey, if e dey hear word for im papa and mama.		Then when the child shows that he respects his parents, he will realize that he is honoring.
The sister talk sey: " This one help me see sey get us for mind.		She writes: " This experience helped me to realize that cares.
This kind person ready to even suffer with the person.		A person who shows compassion is moved to relieve others ' suffering, perhaps by helping them out of their difficulties.
This one dey make dem happy pass before, and e dey make dem get more time for work. E get one brother wey dey stay America, im name na Jack.		Jack, who lives in the United States, sold his large home and business because he knew that doing so would make it possible for him to pioneer with his wife.
This one fit make us ask ourself sey, ' Wetin I fit do make God spirit dey direct me more more, so that I go gain like this people wey we talk about? '		As a result, we may be moved to ask ourselves, ' How can I grow as a spiritual person and enjoy more fully the benefits described above? '
This one no mean sey dem dey leave their work for another person. But, e go help dem fit teach and correct their children to do wetin like.		Arranging for such help need not mean abdicating their spiritual responsibility; rather, it can be part of bringing up their children " in the discipline and admonition of. "
This work na part of the things wey God want make dem do. "		It is part of their God - given commission. "
To know the answer, make we first know the kind eye wey people for Rome take dey look religion.		To answer that, it is useful to note how the Romans considered religions in general.
To show your faith, use every chance wey you get take dey preach about God Kingdom ( Check paragraph 12 )		Exercise your faith by sharing the good news at every opportunity ( See paragraph 12 )
Today, organization dey copy Ezra and apostle Paul example. Dem dey handle the money wey people contribute well and dem no dey spend am anyhow.		Imitating the examples of Ezra and Paul, our organization today follows strict procedures when it comes to handling and spending donated funds.
Una don leave God law come dey hold people tradition tight. ' - Mark 7: 6 - 8.		You let go of the commandment of God and cling to the tradition of men. " - Mark 7: 6 - 8.
We fit ask this question when person dey do us wetin no good, when we dey sick, when we don old, or when the wahala for this world dey hard us to bear.		Perhaps we have had to deal with some form of injustice.
We fit don dey try to change but we come see sey e no easy to change.		Has making progress in this regard proved to be harder than we expected?
We fit still help brothers and sisters wey go preach for where publishers no many, whether for their country or another country.		Or we may be able to give practical support to brothers and sisters who move to areas within the country, or even abroad, to serve where the need for Kingdom publishers is greater.
Wetin Jesus teach people, touch their mind because Jesus love, Bible and the people wey e dey teach.		As a teacher, Jesus reached hearts because he loved, God 's Word, and people.
Wetin better pass, na for the woman to find better time to sofri explain the matter to im husband. The man go happy sey im wife tell am the truth.		Instead, if she finds an appropriate time to explain unpleasant things calmly, her husband will likely appreciate her honesty.
Wetin help am?		What helped her?
Wetin make Martha believe sey God go resurrect people? And wetin fit make you believe?		Just why could she believe that, and why can you?
Wetin person wey do wetin bad well well for eye need to do?		What actions of a repentant Christian show that he has not taken God 's mercy for granted?
Wetin you do really sweet!		You must have made very happy!
Wetin you think about our meeting, and wetin you don put for mind sey you must do?		How do you feel about our meetings, and what are you determined to do?
When Joseph still dey young, im brothers sell am as slave because of jealousy. The people wey buy am, come carry am go Egypt.		As a young man, Joseph was sold into slavery by his jealous half brothers and taken to Egypt.
When e dey prison for Egypt, e no think am sey e go be the second oga after Pharaoh. Or sey na im go use take save im family from hunger. ( Gen. 40: 15, ftn.		While in a prison hole in Egypt, did Joseph have any idea that he would be appointed to the second - highest position in the land or that he would be used by to save his family from starvation?
When visitor come, some of the people for the village dey use the boy do yeye for where their friend dey.		When visitors came, some of the villagers made fun of him in front of their friends.
When we dey help people, which better thing we fit get?		Those who give comfort can experience what blessings?
Which kind character this preaching work dey help us get, and wetin be the gain?		The field ministry can help us to cultivate what qualities, and with what benefits?
Why e good make Christian think about how their cloth fit affect brothers and sisters?		Why do Christians need to consider how their attire affects fellow worshippers?
Why we talk sey as God allow Jesus die for us, na better thing from God wey no suppose reach our hand?		Why was God 's provision of the ransom both kind and undeserved?
Yes, na wetin Anna do be that even when e dey 84 years. This one make im mind come down.		Yes, Anna found comfort as well as joy in worshipping.
You " understand everything " wey you need to do to make God happy?		Do you " understand everything " necessary to please?
book, still dey there to help you believe wetin you dey learn from Bible.		Those study guides can help you to learn how to explain your beliefs to others.
use sense make the earth.		founded the earth in wisdom.
dey use im holy spirit dey direct our meeting and na dey teach us the things wey we dey learn for there.		is directing our meetings with his holy spirit, and what we learn there comes from him.
From there, Saul come dey do other things wey no like sotey im cup full. come comot am as king.		That started a terrible chain of events that eventually cost Saul his kingship and, more important, 's approval.
[CONTENT_REMOVED]		See paragraph 18 )
Jesus still make us know sey e no good to play with wetin we promise God. E sey: ' Dem tell people for olden days sey, " Make you no swear when you know sey you no go do am, but make you do the things wey you don promise sey you go do. " ' - Matt.		Jesus confirmed the seriousness of making vows when he stated: " It was said to those of ancient times: ' You must not swear without performing, but you must pay your vows to. ' " - Matt.
Anchor na wetin dey hold ship strong for water even when heavy breeze dey blow. Na so the hope wey we get sey go bless us still be.		Just as an anchor keeps a ship steady during a storm, the sure hope of a reward can help us to maintain our emotional, mental, and spiritual stability.
E dey see everybody as one family.		He views all humans as one family.
And ' spirit come start to give David power. '		And " the spirit of began to empower David. "
Even as the people no listen, Noah no stop to tell them the thing wey God talk say e go do.		Despite the people 's indifference, Noah faithfully proclaimed the warning message that he had been given.
Wetin Psalm 16: 10 talk sey go happen?		What did Psalm 16: 10 foretell?
Which question we go ask ourself?		What questions do we do well to ask ourselves?
As you de endure, e de help our brothers and sisters make them no tire too, even if they don de serve for many years.		Your steadfastness in serving is a source of encouragement for many - even for experienced fellow believers.
Wetin happen to Naboth and im children?		What injustice did Naboth and his sons experience?
Story About People Life - Bless Us Because We Bear Wahala		Life Story - Endurance Under Trial Results in Blessings
Person fit no treat us well, we fit dey sick, we fit no get work, our person fit die, or something fit dey worry us for mind. All this things fit make our joy go down.		Injustice, poor health, unemployment, grief, or other causes of anxiety and sorrow may gradually cause some to lose their joy.
The main thing wey go make us " stop to " vex na because we want be like. Bible sey " no dey punish us as our sin reach. " ( Ps.		The most important reason to " let go " of anger is to imitate, who " has not dealt with us according to our sins. "
But many times when the matter no too serious, we fit settle am with the person. We fit no need another person or even elders to help us settle am.		However, in many cases that do not involve serious wrongdoing, it may be possible to resolve a difference without involving anyone else, not even the elders.
Cain, wey be their first pikin, marry one of im family person.		Their first son, Cain, married one of his female relatives.
All of us dey sin and die today because we come from Adam and Eve.		The descendants of Adam and Eve inherited imperfection and death from their disobedient parents.
And e name the second one Ephraim because, e sey, " God don bless me with pikin for the land where I suffer. " '		And he named the second one Ephraim, for he said, ' God has made me fruitful in the land of my affliction. ' "
And make dem no do anything wey fit make some people think sey dem want spoil the pikin. ( 1 Pet. 2: 12 ) Even if papa and mama tell other people to help dem, e no mean sey dem go leave their work for dem.		Moreover, those who help should avoid any conduct that could be misinterpreted by some inside or outside the congregation as morally questionable.
Another thing wey fit help us na to invite dem come chop for our house.		Another way to draw closer to those from another background is to invite them for a meal in our home.
Another thing wey go help us na prayer.		Hence, we need to meditate on what we read.
Around that time, dem make Brother Nikolai Chimpoesh circuit overseer. Na Moldova e come from, and e serve as circuit overseer for almost 30 years.		At about that time, Nikolai Chimpoesh, from Moldova, was appointed a circuit overseer and served as such for almost 30 years.
As dem dey comot, the oga come smile and e tell us bye - bye.		When they left, the chief smiled and waved to us.
As the Person wey dey ' hear prayer, ' dey happy to put ear if people use better mind pray.		As the " Hearer of prayer, " is pleased to listen to all sincere prayers.
Because e no join, dem come put am for one prison wey dem dey call Kingston Penitentiary wey dey for Ontario, Canada.		Because he would not bear arms, he was sentenced to a ten - month term in the Kingston Penitentiary in Ontario, Canada.
Because of our sin, we no fit give ourself hope.		As sinners, on our own we would have no hope.
Before that year end, bomb start to land for Britain anyhow.		Later that year, the regular bombing of Britain began.
Before the heavy rain fall, people dey work well well before dem see food chop because the ground no dey produce well.		Before the Flood, people had to work extra hard to grow food, and Noah was surely no exception.
Bible advice us sey make we dey do good to people. ( Heb.		The Scriptures urge Christians to extend hospitality.
Bible talk for Psalm 92: 1, 4 sey: " Na good thing to thank.		The psalmist observed: " It is good to give thanks to.
But ' person wey dey put mind for the spirit ' dey use im life do things wey concern God and wetin e want. This kind person dey let holy spirit control wetin e dey think.		A person doing the latter centers his life on things related to God and his thoughts; such a Christian is dominated by holy spirit.
But, as this children dey learn the language of the new place, some of dem fit no like to speak their papa and mama language again. Dem fit even no sabi speak am again.		Yet, as children of immigrants assimilate the local culture and language, some of them may lose much of their desire and even their ability to communicate in their parents ' mother tongue.
But, e still good make we talk about how e take forgive us.		Still, we can benefit from thinking about how he could - and did - forgive us.
But I dey pray sey dem go come back, come follow the better example wey my papa and mama take train dem.		Hopefully, they will again imitate the fine examples that were also set for them.
But better thing dey come out from wetin dem dey do.		Granted, at times it is challenging, but life as a need - greater is very rewarding.
But that one no teach people lesson, dem still dey fight war.		Since the end of World War II, mankind has certainly not learned to avoid war.
But wetin help me sabi speak English be sey, our teachers dey always use English teach us.		I had only seven years of education, but our teachers regularly used English.
Dem no be like those people wey only like theirself, and wey like to dey get things from other people. - Acts 20: 35.		Furthermore, unlike those who are lovers of themselves and who are interested only in receiving, 's servants find delight in giving of themselves for the welfare of others. - Acts 20: 35.
Dem ready to do ' wetin God talk ' even if e no easy, because na ' God dem go obey as ruler no be people. '		They were determined to obey " God as ruler rather than men. "
Dey do research.		Do research.
E come be like sey the holy spirit dey push am go another place go preach.		It was as if the holy spirit were pushing him to go somewhere else.
E come happen sey, for 1962, e baptize as Witness.		Finally, in 1962 he was baptized as one of 's.
E dey make sure sey e teach im people well well and dem dey enjoy to do things together as one. E never be like this before! ( Isa.		He makes sure that true worshippers flourish in their spiritual estate, which is unprecedented in its spiritual abundance.
E fit be sey before the person baptize, na only one brother or sister study with am.		Making disciples is teamwork.
E need to understand wetin e mean for person to be God servant, and e go ready to do everything wey Jesus talk.		So to gain a solid foundation of Scriptural knowledge, he needed to learn basic Bible truths, understand what it means to be one of God 's servants, and be determined to obey Jesus ' teachings.
E no dey let me sleep and treat people well, e dey make me sick, and sometimes e be like sey make I stop to serve, make ground open, make I enter. "		It robs me of sleep, impacts my health, affects the way I treat others, and sometimes makes me want to give up and crawl into a hole. "
E no tey, zone servant ( wey we dey call circuit overseer now ) come dey stay our house. We still dey invite some pioneers to come chop for our house.		Soon we were accommodating zone servants ( now known as circuit overseers ) and inviting nearby pioneers for meals.
E talk sey: " I be the apostle wey small pass. And because I suffer God congregation, I no reach the person wey dem suppose dey call apostle. "		He acknowledged: " I am the least of the apostles, and I am not worthy of being called an apostle, because I persecuted the congregation of God. "
Even though sey dem give Daniel the King food, e ' don already talk for im mind ' sey e no go ' dirty imself ' with that kind food. ( Dan.		Although Daniel was offered food to eat from the king 's delicacies, he " resolved in his heart " that he would not " defile himself. "
Everywhere cold well well no be small!		Then I discovered that it was cold - very cold!
Fear catch church leaders because people go start to read Bible and dem go dey ask question.		And as the Bible became available, people did read it.
For apostle time, use the governing body take encourage all the brothers and sisters and even people wey dey direct the work.		The first - century governing body proved to be a source of encouragement both to those taking the lead and to Christians in general.
For example, Satan use wahala and lie to try make Job weak as e dey serve, but im plan no work.		Satan used a combination of calamities and accusations in an effort to discourage righteous Job, but that cruel scheme failed.
For there, e come see one window where e go fit dey see wetin dey happen.		Then he made his way toward a large skylight with open windows.
For this topic, we don learn sey to continue to get strong faith, we need to dey pray and dey think about wetin God don promise.		In this article, we have seen how meditation on God 's promises and regular prayer will keep our faith strong.
For this topic and the next one, we go talk about how don use some people take lead im people.		In this article and the next, we will examine how for millenniums has directed certain humans to take the lead.
Get the mind sey go ' pour blessing on top una until una no come dey find anything again. ' - Mal.		Have full confidence that will " pour out on you a blessing until there is nothing lacking. " - Mal.
Give example of how Governing Body take different from people wey dey lead for church?		Give an example.
Help am know wetin e mean for person to baptize, and tell am wetin person wey don baptize dey do.		How do the benefits greatly outweigh the costs?
Hezekiah use all im mind serve. ' E continue to do wetin dey the commandment wey give Moses. ' - 2 Ki.		He was fully devoted to, for " he continued to keep the commandments that had given to Moses. " - 2 Ki.
How take dey select who e go draw near imself?		How does choose those whom he draws to himself?
How Jesus take show sey scribe and Pharisee people no value people life?		According to Jesus, how did the scribes and Pharisees show a careless disregard for life?
How all of us fit use better word help each other?		How can all of us share in building one another up?
How marriage be from Adam time go reach Jesus time?		How would you describe the history of marriage from the time of Adam to Jesus ' day?
How we go take talk word wey go make person strong?		How can we give encouragement that is effective?
I come tell the Greece soldier dem sey na the group use force carry me follow body.		I hid behind a fallen tree, which led to my encounter with the soldiers mentioned earlier.
I don learn to wait for and im organization, and this one don help me no be small!		I have learned to wait on and his organization, and how I have benefited from doing so!
If to sey you dey where Jesus apostle dey drag, you go gree sey dem gentle and sey dem be like soft clay?		If you had witnessed the apostles ' heated disputes, would you have viewed these men as meek and malleable?
If you don de do like this already, na good thing you de do.		If you are already doing so, that is commendable.
If you get pikin wey dem disfellowship, you dey use " all your mind trust "? You dey show am sey you " no put mind for wetin you think sey you sabi "? ( Prov.		If you have a disfellowshipped child, will you " trust in with all your heart [ and ] not rely on your own understanding "?
Im name na Mr. O 'Connor and im na secretary for one church organization wey dem dey call YMCA. E pass 1,000 people wey come listen to the talk, and this man want deceive dem.		O 'Connor, secretary of the YMCA - attempted to turn the audience of more than 1,000 against the Bible Students.
Witness people dey use this chance take preach to people wey dem meet for there, wey come catch fish		s often take the opportunity to speak with fishermen they meet
no de ever tell us make we do something wey we no fit do. - Deut.		Whatever asks of us is always reachable. - Deut.
no dey force people to serve am.		That is not 's way.
Make we dey respect people wey dey direct us, whether na for family or for congregation.		What is our response to divinely authorized headship?
Make you still dey train yourself.		You too need to keep honing your skills.
Man fit end im marriage if ' e see something wey no good about ' im wife.		A man could divorce his wife for " something indecent. "
Na im make Bible talk sey: ' " Make you test me, abeg,. " na wetin wey get plenty army talk, " to see whether I no go open all the door for heaven to pour blessing on top una until nothing go scarce again. " ' ( Mal.		We read: " ' Test me out, please,. ' of armies says, ' to see whether I will not open to you the floodgates of the heavens and pour out on you a blessing until there is nothing lacking. ' "
Na so brothers for Greece still dey do. Dem dey contribute olive oil, cheese, and other food for Bethel family.		Likewise, brothers in Greece regularly contribute olive oil, cheese, and other foods for the Bethel family.
Na the children surprise me pass.		The children impressed me the most.
Na which time dem take join this two stick wey mean the ten - tribe kingdom and the two - tribe kingdom together?		When were these two symbolic sticks joined together?
One congregation write sey, ' Train no dey fit reach this place. '		One congregation wrote, " The only line that passes near this place is a telegraph line. "
One thing be sey, no talk story or example wey go make people mind comot for the Bible wey you read.		For one thing, be careful that nothing - experiences, illustrations, or even your manner of delivery - overshadows or draws attention away from the Bible verses you use.
Our work for organization fit change anytime.		Our place in God 's arrangement is not fixed, however.
Out of our 9 children and 11 grandchildren wey dey alive, 16 of dem dey serve, or dey follow their papa and mama go meeting.		Of the 9 children and 11 grandchildren still living, 16 serve or attend the meetings with their parents.
Paul know sey na want make e go Macedonia. So because of that one, e no waste time go there.		With such a clear indication of 's will, Paul immediately accepted the invitation.
Science people don learn many things about wetin God make. And dem don use am make life better for us.		Science has revealed much about the universe and our earthly home, and it has brought us advantages in various aspects of life.
Self - control na part of the character wey God spirit dey make person get. And person wey dey correct imself dey get this character.		The fruitage of that spirit includes self - control, which is closely related to self - discipline.
Since 1919, na only small assembly dem dey do. But after some years, the number of congregation for the area come reduce.		Since 1919, small assemblies were held, but the number of congregations actually decreased in subsequent years.
So, na im make when you dey follow people talk about how life take start, make you first ask question.		So when you discuss the origin of life with someone, it is usually wise to ask questions first.
So if this kind thing fit happen to good angel, then e go hard us well well to dey carry body down. Why?		How much more difficult it is for sinful humans to avoid improper pride and haughtiness!
Some weeks before Memorial day, e go come read dem again. And e go sitdown think about why e good to do the Memorial.		In the weeks prior to the Memorial, he rereads these articles and meditates on the importance of this observance.
Sometimes, we fit no know the correct thing to do for some serious matter.		At times, we too have to make difficult decisions, and the right course to take may not be clear.
That time, things go change for the anointed ( people wey God choose with holy spirit ) wey Bible call " sons of Levi. " Jesus Christ wey be " the messenger of the covenant, " go follow, wey be " the true Lord, " come find out wetin dey happen among im people.		During that time, God, " the true Lord, " accompanied by Jesus Christ, " the messenger of the covenant, " came to the spiritual temple to inspect those serving there.
The ' pikin ' wey ' the woman ' go born, go scatter the head of that bad angel wey be Satan.		The original rebellious spirit creature would be crushed by the " offspring " of " the woman. "
The brother pick phone, and e start to talk to the overseer anyhow e come even cut the call before the overseer talk finish.		He was nursing hurt feelings over his dealings with the previous overseer.
The elders go still need to know if the person kill the person ' because e hate am. ' Na this things go help dem know whether dem go pity for am.		To reflect divine justice, they had to determine whether the fugitive acted " out of hatred " and " with malicious intent. "
The love wey e disciples get for each other go show say they really be e disciples. And this love go help them remain as one. - John 13: 34, 35.		Love would be a mark of Jesus ' true disciples that would contribute to their unity. - John 13: 34, 35.
The man later become Witness. E sell im hotel and only im pioneer for 15 years. E preach for some of the place wey far and wey dry well well for Australia.		The hotelkeeper, Charles Bernhardt, later accepted the truth, sold his hotel, and pioneered alone for 15 years in some of the driest and most isolated parts of Australia.
The second person wey we go talk about na Saul. E first dey suffer people wey dey follow Jesus.		A second example is that of a Jewish man who was persecuting Christians.
The time wey I no dey, my wife go preach for one business area wey dem dey speak Portuguese language.		While I was away, Mary witnessed in a Portuguese commercial district, where making money was the only subject of interest.
Think about why you believe wetin Bible talk.		First, think about why you are convinced of your beliefs.
This one go help us near more more. - Eccl.		Having such goals will help all of us as 's servants to deepen our spirituality. - Eccl.
This one make dem fit settle the matter well and the brother come later join do the work for the convention. After, the brother come dey thank the overseer because the overseer no vex for am.		Thereafter, the brother served at the convention and now thanks the overseer for having dealt with him calmly and kindly.
This one show sey really know you.		Now you are truly known by him.
This paragraph dey talk wetin dey happen before before for prison wey dey some area for United States.		This paragraph describes a prison custom that was common practice years ago in some parts of the United States.
Venecia start to study with am because the woman like to talk about Bible.		The lady was eager to discuss the Bible, and Venecia began conducting a study with her.
We believe wetin Bible talk sey we go fit enter God rest, and we dey try do things wey go make us enter.		We trust that the Bible - based prospect of entering into God 's rest is really possible, and we have taken steps to enter.
We dey gist about things wey we do that day and my wife relax for chair.		My wife had stretched out on a sofa to rest while we were talking about the day 's activity.
We fit still make person strong if we let am know sey e get better character or if we ' talk word wey go make people wey life tire strong. ' ( 1 Thess. 5: 14, ftn. )		We can also be encouraging by reassuring others that they have good qualities or by speaking " consolingly to those who are discouraged. "
We go remember Jesus death for Saturday, March 31, 2018.		The annual observance of the Memorial of Christ 's death will be held on Saturday, March 31, 2018.
We still dey get better better things from our magazine wey we suppose dey think about.		We also receive excellent food for thought in our magazines.
Wetin be the thing wey hard Jephthah and im pikin?		What challenge did Jephthah and his daughter face?
Wetin first make Blossom papa and mama dey fear?		Blossom 's parents had what concern?
Wetin fit be the reason why no tell us plenty things about Satan before the Messiah come?		Why, apparently, was little said about Satan before the Messiah arrived?
Wetin go help us if we dey face serious wahala?		What can help us when we face difficult circumstances?
Wetin go help you do wetin like even when e hard?		How can you prepare yourself to resist temptations?
Wetin we need to put for mind about enjoyment?		Regarding recreation and entertainment, what caution is in order?
Wetin young person wey dey serve fit dey think about, and wetin fit help am?		What pressure may young ones today feel, and what steps can they take to deal with this?
When David come know sey wetin dem first tell am na lie, e change wetin e talk. ( 2 Sam.		When David later received accurate information, he amended his decision.
When I come holiday for 1946, I follow dem go one convention for where dem dey call Cleveland, wey dey Ohio, for U.S.A.		In 1946 when I returned home for the summer, we attended a convention in Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A.
When Paul dey talk about wetin husband and wife suppose do for their marriage, e write sey: ' Make wife dem dey respect their husband well well because of the Lord, because na husband be head of im wife as Christ be head for congregation. ' ( Eph.		Focusing on the personal duties of each marriage mate, Paul wrote: " Let wives be in subjection to their husbands as to the Lord, because a husband is head of his wife just as the Christ is head of the congregation. "
When fake religion start to control correct Christian?		When did true Christians come into Babylonian captivity?
Why e be sey this one no be waste of time?		Why are such efforts worthwhile?
Why e no good to dey shift baptism?		Why would it be a mistake to delay baptism?
You fit invite dem to stay for your house, even if your house small?		Could you share in offering accommodations even if your circumstances are modest?
why we need to do something quick quick make God forgive us?		the need to take decisive action to benefit from God 's mercy?
Na im make many people fit do good things, only sey some dey do am pass some.		Thus, most of them exhibit some godly qualities, though to differing degrees.
But if we let God direct us, we go fit.		But we can succeed when we look to God for guidance.
The person wey write this psalm, know sey go make the gate of the city strong to protect im people. This one make am get the mind sey go help dem.		How reassuring it was for the psalmist to know that God would strengthen the city 's gates to provide protection for his worshippers!
Wetin happen when one brother go return visit?		Relate the experience one brother had. ( b ) How have you witnessed the power of God 's Word in your ministry?
Which question we go answer for the next topic?		What question will we consider in the following article?
Na Devil get this kind character.		It is a characteristic of the Devil.
Because people dey treat stranger anyhow, arrange things wey go help dem.		Since foreigners are often disadvantaged, lovingly made provisions for them.
Use All Your Mind Serve!		Serve With a Complete Heart!
When we sabi this one, e go help us make we no dey watch the kind film wey go make us start to think bad thing.		Being aware of this, we should be moved to reject entertainment that fuels impure thoughts and inclinations.
For example, e dey quick vex and e dey hard am to control im temper.		For example, he found that controlling his quick temper was surprisingly difficult.
True true, the strong faith wey we get sey God ' dey bless people wey dey try use all their mind find am, ' go help us continue to serve. - Heb.		Yes, our being firmly convinced that " becomes the rewarder of those earnestly seeking him " will help us to stand firm in the faith. - Heb.
But we happy sey we fit choose sey we no want make sin dey rule or control us.		Happily, though, we can choose no longer to be ruled, or dominated, by sin.
After I come dey work for where dem dey call Shipping Department.		A few months later, I was working in the Shipping Department.
After Peter preach to im and im family, God give dem holy spirit even though dem never circumcise.		After Peter preached to Cornelius and his relatives, holy spirit was poured out on them, although the men had not been circumcised.
All our three children still dey serve and dem dey full time. '		Our three children are all serving in the full - time ministry. "
All this time, I don learn many things as I dey work with brothers wey dey do plenty work for Bethel. Nora self don do different different work for Bethel. When I dey give talk for one convention.		Over the course of time, I have learned much from serving alongside brothers who care for heavy responsibilities, and Nora has had a variety of assignments at Bethel.
And this one come make us dey sure sey true true na get Bible. "		This adds to our confidence that the Bible truly is from.
And wetin we fit do to fit dey control ourself more more?		And what practical steps can you take to strengthen your self - control?
And why e good to dey do this things? If you want be friend, you need to dey listen to am and dey talk to am.		Friendship with involves two - way communication - listening and talking.
As I dey go preaching every time and dey visit different different congregation, I come learn Tagalog language.		Working in the field ministry and visiting congregations helped me to learn Tagalog.
As no leave Ruth and Naomi na so e later do for David.		In line with what David later experienced, did not leave Ruth and Naomi in want.
As people start to study Bible, dem fit learn about people like Lazarus wey come back to life.		As people begin to study the Bible, most read accounts of past resurrections, such as the raising of Lazarus.
Asa na the third king wey rule for Judah after the northern ten - tribe for Israel don separate from the other two tribe.		Asa was the third king of Judah after the northern ten - tribe kingdom of Israel separated.
Because e love us and e know sey anytime wey we use wetin e don give us, we dey happy.		Because he loves us, and he knows that it brings us satisfaction when we employ these gifts.
Before e die last year, e dey sign - language congregation for where dem dey call Laval, for Quebec.		Until his death last year, he belonged to the sign - language congregation in Laval, Quebec.
Before the heavy rain fall that time, Noah preach and e fit be say e warn people about the thing wey God go do wicked people.		His preaching work prior to the Flood evidently included a warning of coming destruction.
Brothers and sisters dey talk to people for bus stop, where train dey drop people; inside market, for park and for other open place.		They set aside time to approach people at train and bus stations, in marketplaces and parks, and in other public areas.
But after I go Turkey, I come dey thank sey Armageddon never come.		But after having moved to Turkey, I thank that he is still showing patience.
But my wife wey be regular pioneer dey always happy.		My wife, a regular pioneer, was always so happy.
But sometimes e dey let im people go fight wicked people wey dey suffer dem.		Yet, on occasion, he authorized warfare when wickedness and oppression threatened his people.
But this people later die again, and dem turn to sand sand for grave.		They died again and saw corruption in the grave.
Cherubs na angels wey their level high.		The cherubs are angels of high rank.
Daniel know sey e go die and e go rest.		Daniel was to come to his end in death and then rest.
Dem go really happy!		How the parents appreciate this gift!
Dem let people wey be Jew to serve their own God instead of the juju wey Rome people dey serve.		The Jews had free exercise of their religion and were exempted from worshiping the deities of the Roman state.
Devil go want really make sure sey e make your hand weak, so that you go stop to serve.		The Devil would really like to see you give up and drop your hands in defeat.
E allow Ananias help am. Ananias na person wey dey follow Jesus.		He welcomed assistance from the Christian disciple Ananias.
E cure blind people, people wey no dey fit waka, people wey get leprosy, and deaf people.		He cured the blind, the lame, the lepers, and the deaf.
E get another brother wey im wife die. E talk sey as im wife just die, mouth no fit talk how e pain am reach.		Another Christian said that when his wife died suddenly, he experienced " indescribable physical pain. "
E go show sey I dey patient and get better mind? '		And will it show that I am patient and kind? '
E sey: " We arrange sey we go dey use our language for family worship and when we dey study our pikin.		He explains: " We made the decision to conduct study sessions and family worship with the children in our native language.
E sweet dem to hear the special message wey King David tell dem.		They are thrilled to hear a special announcement.
E tell sey e love am and e ready to put wetin want as the number one thing for im life.		That dedication is a promise to love God and to put his will above everything else.
Elders fit help this kind brothers and sisters hear the things wey dem learn for meeting. The elders fit record the different different part for the meeting or dem fit use telephone take connect dem.		Elders can help these ones to listen to the meetings, perhaps by helping them set up a connection over the telephone or by recording the meetings for them.
Even when problem big well well we no go shake and we no go fall, if we get endurance.		It helps us to remain firm and unmovable even during the worst trials.
For 1955, I go international convention for Germany, France, and England.		In 1955, I attended international conventions in Germany, France, and England.
For example, ' If I do another work join my own, I fit still do other things wey I suppose do?		For example, will he be able to take on more work or responsibility without neglecting other important things?
For example, sun na one of the things wey make. And we know sey sun get power well well because of the heat and light wey e get.		For example, the sun changes five million tons of its matter into energy every second.
For the first topic, we go learn how marriage take start, how the Law wey give Israel people take help dem for their marriage, and wetin Jesus talk about how marriage suppose be for servant.		The origin of marriage, how it was regulated under the Mosaic Law, and the pattern Jesus set for Christian wedlock are matters discussed in the first article.
For the next topic, we go talk about another two example of people wey dem no treat well for Bible time.		In the next article, we will consider two additional instances of unjust treatment that occurred among 's people in Bible times.
For this one to happen, e good make we dey carry body down.		To have that, we need to cultivate meekness.
How brothers and sisters for congregation fit help people wey their person die?		How can the congregation provide comfort to those who are mourning?
How papa and mama go take know if their pikin don reach to give im life?		How can parents know if a child is in a position to make a valid dedication?
How people wey dey another language congregation fit serve well?		How can those serving in a foreign field maintain their spiritual health?
How the way dem take do things that time take be like the way people dey do today?		What similar arrangement exists among God 's people today?
How you fit do like Josiah?		In what ways would you like to be like Josiah?
I first know Eunice when I dey final year for the school.		I had first met Eunice at that school for the deaf when I was in my senior year.
I get clean mind for where dey.		I have a clean conscience before.
I still get that strong faith for and Jesus wey make me give my life? ' ( Matt. 24: 14; 2 Tim. 3: 1; Heb.		Do I have the same confidence in and Jesus now that I had when I dedicated my life to God? '
I want tell everybody about.		I wanted to tell everyone about him.
If na so you dey feel, know sey other people don feel like this before.		If you do, you are not alone.
If the person run go any of the city, nothing go happen to am for there.		Once inside a city of refuge, the fugitive was safe.
If we want make people listen to our message, wetin we go do?		How can we introduce scriptures in a way that engenders respect for the Bible?
If you enter bus wey dey go another place, e no go carry you go where you get for mind.		Boarding a bus going anywhere else would mean that you would head in the wrong direction.
promise dem sey e go protect and help dem so that dem fit build the temple finish.		had guaranteed stability and protection for their work.
talk again say, for some time, this wicked angel go bring trouble for people wey they love God. - Gen.		But also warned that for a time, the spirit creature who spoke through the serpent would have the power to oppose those who love God. - Gen.
tell Adam and Eve to born children so that people go full the earth. E still tell dem to take care of the earth. ( Gen.		specifically commanded Adam and Eve to populate the earth and to take care of it.
KGB for Russia mean Soviet State Security Committee.		KGB is the Russian abbreviation for Soviet State Security Committee.
Make we help people wey dey suffer, even if dem no dey serve. If we do like that, we dey copy the better example of the Samaritan for one story wey Jesus talk.		Like the neighborly Samaritan in Jesus ' illustration, we want to help suffering people, including those who are not.
Margaret, wey come from England dey 79 years now. E do missionary work for one place wey dem dey call Laos.		Margaret, from England, now in her late 70 ' s, served as a missionary in Laos.
Na better life be that.		That meant a most satisfying way of life.
Na how wetin we dey wear fit worry other people for mind, even if dem no be Witness.		That is our concern for the conscience of others - whether fellow worshippers or not.
Na this one make dem change the topic and some of the word wey dey the song.		So the title and the lyrics were modified.
Na true sey e fit hard us to know wetin to tell people wey their person die.		Understandably, then, it can be difficult to know what to say to someone who is overwhelmed by grief.
No. But e show sey all the Witness wey dey everywhere for this world, dey preach one thing and na so e suppose be for correct Christian.		Far from being " stupid, " however, those were speaking in unity, as true Christians should.
No stop to use all your mind preach. Value this work wey fit save people. No tire to learn the truth wey dey Bible.		Continue to preach zealously, never losing appreciation for our lifesaving ministry.
Now, dem dey happy as dem fit come together for convention for Cedar Point.		Now they were reunited in joyful assembly here at Cedar Point.
One day, dem come preach to am about God Kingdom. As e dey study Bible, e come like wetin e dey learn about the Kingdom.		As Rose studied the Bible, however, she discerned the excelling value of the truth about God 's Kingdom.
One husband and wife for England get problem for their marriage. So, they call two elders make they come help them.		Two elders in England responded to a call from a married couple who were having problems.
One thing wey make them sabi use this sword fight, na because them de train with - am everyday.		One reason that Roman soldiers were so effective is that they practiced with their weapons every day.
One way wey we take dey get am na when we no dey quarrel with people - our family or brothers and sisters for congregation.		One aspect of having such peace is that we strive to be at peace with those in our family and those in the congregation.
So, if you want get more joy, make you continue to pray to make e give you holy spirit.		Likewise, you must feed your spirituality to increase your joy.
So, make we ' think well ' about how Jesus show im faith even if e suffer well well.		Indeed, we should " consider closely " Jesus ' example of faith in the face of the severest of trials.
Some of dem senior me and I senior some of dem.		They were not all of my age or from my cultural background.
That place show sey dem go destroy Satan the Devil and all the bad things wey e don do. - Rev.		Once understood, the prophetic promise written at Genesis 3: 15 would give humankind hope that eventually " the original serpent, " Satan the Devil, and all his evil works would be destroyed. - Rev.
That time, many of God people wey come dey serve together again, get the hope sey dem go be king and priest with Jesus for heaven.		At that time, the majority of those reunited had the hope of becoming kings and priests in heaven with Jesus.
The boy go choose the big one, come run comot.		The boy would choose the silver coin and run away.
The brother talk sey, e come sweet am more more sey e be Witness. E thank sey e let am be im servant.		I felt even more proud of being one of 's people, and I thank him for this wonderful privilege. "
The second thing wey we suppose do to show sey we no get hand for politics matter na to get ' sense like snake and dey clean like dove. '		A second way to remain neutral is to be " cautious as serpents and yet innocent as doves. "
The story of how e take help people wey serve am dey Bible. We know sey go do wetin e get for mind no matter wetin happen. fit even do wetin go surprise us.		We have seen from his past dealings that no matter what happens, will always accomplish his purpose, and sometimes he does it in an unexpected manner.
The topic " Was It Designed? " wey dey back of Awake!		The series of articles called " Was It Designed? "
The truth be sey, enjoyment good for body.		Indeed, recreation and entertainment fill an important need.
They smile and ask me say: " You promise? "		Do you promise?
This one na because the Bible wey dem dey use for church that time ( the Vulgate ), na Latin dem use write am.		Why? Because the official Church Bible ( the Vulgate ) was written in Latin.
Today, people no dey let this kind thing happen for congregation.		Today, marital treachery cannot be tolerated among 's people.
Try know wetin e really believe and topic for Bible wey e fit like.		Find out what he actually believes and what topics may interest him.
We come tell the senior oga sey, ' What if government soldier catch us?		But what if we were captured by government soldiers? " we replied.
We dey different from animal. We fit learn about the Person wey make us and serve am well.		In contrast with animals, we can come to know our Creator and serve him faithfully.
We don talk about many bad character wey want make we pull trowey.		We have considered a number of bad practices that Christians must strip off and keep off.
We fit don think about the matter and do research for our book dem.		We may have given thought to what we already know about the subject, and we may even have done research in our publications.
We fit still learn another language, we fit go another area for our country, or go another country go preach. - Acts 16: 9, 10.		We might also learn another language, move to another area in our own country, or even move to another land. - Acts 16: 9, 10.
We need to talk to brothers for our congregation so that dem go get the character wey go make dem fit be ministerial servant and elder.		In our congregations, brothers need to be encouraged to work hard in order to qualify for appointment as ministerial servants and elders.
Wetin church leaders do wey make Bible no come dey reach many people hand?		How did the Bible come to be under the control of the clergy?
Wetin fit make some people wey don marry to want leave their husband or wife go stay their own?		What may lead a marriage mate to consider separation?
Wetin people wey dey follow Jesus no suppose get for mind as dem dey preach?		What is the wrong motive for doing the preaching work?
Wetin the things wey I dey talk with people dey show about wetin dey my mind?		What do my disposition and conduct at Christian meetings reveal about the depth of my spirituality?
Wetin we don learn from wetin Bible tell us about Jephthah and im pikin? How we fit do like dem?		What have we learned from the Bible account about Jephthah and his daughter, and how can we imitate them?
When Jesus de teach e disciples, how e use word wey e fit guide them?		What are principles, and how did Jesus use them effectively?
When e see sey e no fit hold imself again for where dem dey, e go corner go cry.		And when his feelings were particularly intense, he withdrew to a private place to hide his tears.
When you plan am well, Psalm 20: 4 talk sey, go ' give you wetin dey your mind, and let everything wey you want do get head. '		Psalm 20: 4 says of: " May he grant you the desires of your heart and give success to all your plans. "
Which example show sey brothers and sisters fit help us, even when our family person no dey to help us?		Give an example of how true friends can bring comfort even when close relatives fail to do so.
Why the answer wey Jesus give Peter fit make our faith strong?		Why is Jesus ' reply to Peter faith - strengthening?
Why we dey give wetin we get?		What do we show when we support his work?
Why we fit talk sey na love dey mek us endure?		Why can we say that endurance is motivated by love?
You go fit do the same thing for publishers, pioneers and old brothers and sisters for congregation wey no dey fit do as dem dey do before?		Could you similarly encourage publishers, pioneers, and older brothers and sisters whose strength is failing?
You no go see gun, bomb and other things wey dem take dey fight war.		No weapons or war memorials.
how dey choose people wey e want mold?		how chooses those whom he will mold?
If as you want come give something for altar, and for there you come remember sey your brother dey vex for you, leave wetin you want give for the front of altar, make you first go settle with am. '		If, then, you are bringing your gift to the altar and there you remember that your brother has something against you, leave your gift there in front of the altar, and go away.
And make we self no stop to do well for congregation as we dey serve.		And may we ourselves continue to make spiritual progress in rendering sacred service to.
Wetin Jesus talk when e de preach for e own village?		What did Jesus say about preaching in his " home territory "?
How endurance fit finish im ' work ' for our life?		How can endurance complete its " work " in us?
When person first think about wetin dem talk, e go be like sey e make sense.		At first glance, we might conclude that Eliphaz and Bildad displayed a humble attitude.
Because holy, im law and everything wey im dey talk dey holy.		Since is holy, all principles and laws that originate with him are holy.
[CONTENT_REMOVED]		In those days, meals were served at conventions. )
How people today don take stop to love God?		In what ways has love grown cold in our day?
How we go fit help people when them ready to listen?		We want to be available to do what?
Wetin fit spoil the one mind wey we suppose get for congregation?		What could undermine our unity?
Even if many people for this world dey wear cloth wey dey show their body take swim, wetin dey our mind as people wey dey serve, na to wear wetin go make people praise.		Even if many in the world wear revealing swimwear, we who serve are concerned about being a credit to the holy God we love.
Na Lead Israel People		Leads His People
Na so e still be today. If we dey treat ' everybody ' well, dem go know sey love dem and dem go come serve am. - 1 Tim.		Similarly today, our kindly demeanor can help " all sorts of people " recognize the truth and sense how much loves them. - 1 Tim.
This ' people wey dey carry body down, ' na people wey ready to learn and follow wetin talk.		Who are " the meek " and " the righteous "?
Blessing Better Pass Money		Seeking Riches That Are True
And e fit stop things like, heavy rain or breeze wey fit kill people or spoil their property.		The same is true with regard to his ability to raise the dead and prevent natural disasters.
And find wetin go bring peace for the city wey I send una go as slave, and pray for am to, because na im peace go make una get peace. ' ( Jer.		And seek the peace of the city to which I have exiled you, and pray in its behalf to, for in its peace you will have peace. "
Because love us, e don give us Bible. Bible dey for many many language so that ' everybody go come know wetin be the correct truth. '		In his love, has made his Word, the Bible, available in hundreds of languages so that ' all sorts of people may come to an accurate knowledge of the truth. '
Because of this preaching, many people really hear the good news.		The campaign did indeed result in a widespread witness.
Before, some of dem dey serve juju, dey sleep with person wey no be their husband or wife, man dey play love with man, dem dey thief, dem dey over drink, and do other bad things.		Some had been idolaters, adulterers, homosexuals, thieves, drunkards, and the like.
Before I reach 20 years, I don learn how to drive tractor and how to use other things for farm work.		As a teenager, I learned to drive a tractor and became familiar with other basic farming skills.
Before e handle the matter, e first pray to.		After praying to for help, she decided to face the issue.
Bible show sey person wey no dey overdo, know wetin e suppose do and wetin e no suppose do.		A humble person is generally also a modest person, able to estimate accurately his own abilities and achievements, to acknowledge his mistakes, and to accept suggestions and new ideas.
But e no easy for dem that time because of some things.		It was not easy for them to do so, for several reasons.
But na something wey you go regret?		Should you regret making it?
Convention wey dem do for Mexico City for 1941		convention, Mexico City
Dem dey carry small sign board dey parade everywhere and dem dey use magazine dey preach for street.		They zealously shared in information marches with placards and did street witnessing with magazines.
E come reach the age wey e no fit born pikin again for this life. This one pain am well well.		She admitted that she felt devastated, for she realized that her desire would not be satisfied in this system of things.
E dey see God as real Person.		God is very real to them.
E dey sweet person for belly to see as brothers and sisters come from another country, dey join hand with the brothers and sisters wey dey the country, to help people serve.		It is heartwarming to see so many from other countries working hard alongside local brothers and sisters so as to bring in the harvest.
E finally talk sey: ' Una fit take care of sheep, no be so?		Finally, he exclaimed: " Well, surely you can look after sheep!
E get one sister wey baptize when e dey 13 years, and e dey 18 years now. E talk sey: " I know wetin I believe, but to talk am come out na wahala. "		An 18 - year - old sister, baptized when she was 13, admits, " I know what I believe, but sometimes I have trouble putting my thoughts into words. "
E just be like sey make ground open make the man enter.		The man was embarrassed and apologized for his tirade.
E later talk sey: ' No be human being work be this. '		He later stated: " This is not man 's work. "
E no fit make rain fall or make sun shine for wetin e plant.		Even though a farmer works hard to plant his crop, he has no control over the weather or the growth of the plants.
E pass 1,500 years wey use the Law take direct Israel people.		The Mosaic Law governed Israel 's affairs for over 1,500 years.
E sey make dem forgive am for wetin e do.		In part, she said: " To those two very patient and humble individuals, I would like to convey my apology for my most self - righteous and condescending behaviour.
E still say: " Na this one make I stop to support the government for my country. I begin support people wey they want bring change.		So I rejected the political system in my country, and I supported what many viewed as radical ideas.
E still talk sey: " Even though sey na just 13 years I dey that time, I want pioneer; na wetin dey my mind be that. "		Although I was only 13 at the time, " she says, " that was what I wanted to do; I wanted to pioneer. "
E tell Jesus sey: " I know sey when the last day reach, e go come back to life. "		She said: " I know he will rise in the resurrection on the last day. "
E want make we get sense, make we dey happy and make we love am back.		He wants us to be wise and happy and to love him in return.
Everybody hear wetin the oga talk. As the soldiers dey talk, two person wey Michael and im family no know before come meet dem.		As the officer spoke to his men, two strangers came up to the family and quietly identified themselves as.
Fear na one thing wey dey make many people no dey open mouth sing.		One factor that keeps many from singing with a full voice is fear.
For 1987, our pikin Yaroslav come pack go one city. The name of the city na Riga for Latvia. E come fit dey preach well for there.		In 1987, our son Yaroslav moved to the city of Riga in Latvia, where he was able to preach more openly.
For example, Hannah husband love am.		Hannah often cried because Peninnah, her rival, relentlessly taunted her.
For example, if person do one bad thing reach three times, dem no go forgive am again. Jesus tell us one story wey show how Pharisee people take dey look other people.		For example, according to tradition, they were unwilling to forgive the same offense more than three times.
For example, we fit show dem how to enter transport, or how to buy better food wey no cost. We fit still show dem how to get things wey dem go use work, or how to learn work wey fit help dem put food for table.		It may be as simple as showing them how to use public transportation, how to shop for healthful but inexpensive foods, or how to obtain tools or equipment - such as a sewing machine or a lawn mower - in order to earn some income.
For example, wetin Psalm 136: 23 talk go make your mind come down. E sey: ' E remember us when we dey down, because e love no dey fail at all. '		We find such words at Psalm 136: 23, which states: " He remembered us when we were low, for his loyal love endures forever. "
For example, when Ezra dey travel go Jerusalem, e carry gold, silver and other better things wey the king of Persia give am. If we calculate this better things today, e pass 100 million U.S. dollars ( 36 billion naira ).		For example, Ezra traveled back to Jerusalem with donated items from the Persian king - gold, silver, and other materials worth well over $ 100 million ( U.S. ) in today 's values.
For example, when the bad thing wey we do dey worry us for mind, our mind dey come down when we read for Bible sey " the blood of.		When we are weighed down with the burden of sin, are we not relieved to read that " the blood of Jesus. cleanses us from all sin "?
For this topic, we go learn how Bible take survive reach our time even when ( 1 ) language change, ( 2 ) different government rule, and ( 3 ) people try stop Bible translation.		In this article, we will consider examples of how God 's Word has endured ( 1 ) changes in language, ( 2 ) political developments that influenced the lingua franca, or common language, and ( 3 ) opposition to Bible translation. How will we benefit from this review? It will deepen our appreciation for God 's Word.
For this topic, we go talk about wetin Paul write for Philippians 4: 6, 7.		Let us first discuss Paul 's words recorded at Philippians 4: 6, 7.
From that time, the way e take put all im body for the preaching work, show sey e love Jesus. E come be better example for congregation for apostle time.		From that point forward, he proved his love for Christ by busying himself in the disciple - making work, becoming a pillar in the first - century Christian congregation.
God send prophet Hanani make e go tell Asa sey wetin e do no good. E no trust.		God sent his spokesman Hanani to reprimand Asa for not relying on.
How papa and mama go take do everything wey God talk like Noah?		As parents, how can you do " just so " in God 's eyes?
How we take know sey Witness people get holy spirit?		How do we know that 's have God 's spirit?
How you fit use example wey go touch your pikin mind when you dey teach am?		How might you use illustrations effectively in teaching?
I come ask one of the small girls wey im name na Hilda, if e go like to follow us preach.		I asked one of the little girls, Hilda, if she wanted to come and preach with us.
I come tell myself sey when I go back to Germany, na wetin I go do be that.		I decided to do the same when I returned to Germany.
I still remember sey Witness people don come knock my door many times, but I no dey open for dem.		I remember that 's knocked on my door many times, but I never opened it.
If we see sey e get some things wey we no dey do well, e good make we do something about am.		Once we have identified areas for improvement, we need to take positive steps that will help us move forward.
Instead, the oga sey: ' We know who una be, and we no go force una change wetin una believe.		Instead, the deputy warden said: " We know who you are, and we respect your stand.
JESUS talk - am before say for the time of the end, e disciples go help plenty people come worship. ( Matt.		JESUS foretold that his followers would enjoy an abundant harvest in this time of the end.
do wetin make us dey sure sey, e go help us when we need help.		What conviction strengthened the psalmist?
make sure sey im people fit worship am well ( Check paragraph 16 - 18 )		made every effort to keep pure worship clean ( See paragraphs 16 - 18 )
na God wey dey arrange things.		As a God of order, gives each one of us a place or sphere of operation in his household.
Luke 3: 32 talk about five people for the family wey Messiah come from.		Luke 3: 32 lists five later links in the line leading to the Messiah.
Make the kind cloth wey we dey wear no make people come dey think whether we be Witness or we no be Witness.		Our choice of clothing should not make people conclude anything other than that we are worshippers of.
Make we ready to do good things for our brothers even if nobody see us. E go show sey we love dem.		We should be willing to perform acts of love for our brothers " in secret, " or out of the limelight, when this is possible.
Make we see the example of one sister for Australia wey im name na Tessie.		Consider the example of Tessie, a sister in Australia.
Make you use sweet mind drink your wine. " - Eccl.		The Bible encourages faithful ones: " Go, eat your food with rejoicing, and drink your wine with a cheerful heart. " - Eccl.
Many people feel sey if dem no do everything wey their oga talk, dem fit sack dem.		Employees who are unwilling to make such sacrifices for their company risk losing their jobs.
Na 1945 Japan soldier comot for Philippines.		The Japanese occupation ended in 1945.
Na im make am send im Son as sacrifice to cover our sin. '		The love is in this respect, not that we have loved God, but that he loved us and sent his Son as a propitiatory sacrifice for our sins. "
Na so because e dey make their mind come down. The truth be sey, love go dey congregation when we dey help our brothers, and when we dey go preaching with dem. ( Phil.		Certainly, all of us contribute to a close bond in the congregation when we show concern for others, those in our territory and those in the congregation.
Na true sey dem dey make mistake.		True, it is composed of humans who are imperfect and who have their faults.
No be so talk. Bible tell people wey dey serve God sey: " Make you go chop and make you enjoy your food.		does not want us to practice severe self - denial or to abstain from wholesome activities that bring enjoyment.
One young sister for France talk sey: " Teachers for my school dey surprise sey some student still believe wetin dey Bible. "		A young sister in France said: " Teachers in my school are quite astonished that there are students who still believe in the Bible. "
Others still dey wey dey arrange their time well, so that dem fit use plenty time preach for every Memorial time.		Others make plans to increase their service to during the Memorial season.
Our pikin dem tell us sey our example, and the example of our papa and mama help dem. E really help dem follow wetin Jesus talk to ' put God Kingdom first ' even when things hard for dem. ( Matt.		Our daughters have told us that the examples we and their grandparents set helped them to obey Jesus ' command to ' keep seeking first the Kingdom, ' even when they had difficult financial situations.
Our website get law wey dey protect everything.		All the material on our websites is copyrighted.
Paul tell us sey make we dey allow God spirit direct us.		Paul encourages us to be spiritual people.
See as apostle Paul take talk am for the letter wey e write give the brothers for Philippi. E sey: ' Because God want make you do wetin e like, na im be the Person wey dey give you power, so that you go want do and you go fit do wetin e like. ' ( Phil.		The apostle Paul answers in his letter to the Philippians: " God is the one who for the sake of his good pleasure energizes you, giving you both the desire and the power to act. "
So, after one year, I come go house back go help that my uncle wey be priest.		So a year later, I went back home and looked after my uncle, the priest.
So if you don plan wetin you want use your life do, e no go hard you to choose better thing.		In the same way, if you know what your goals are, making good decisions becomes easier.
So when we dey talk, I go just talk something like, ' I dey teach person Bible one day, and. '		So I 'll mention something in passing, such as, ' I was teaching the Bible the other day, and. '
Take the Father, Son and holy spirit, name dey baptize dem, dey teach dem to do everything wey I don command una. " ( Matt.		Yes, it seems that hundreds of his followers were present when Jesus gave the commission to make disciples.
The answer go help us know the people wey really dey preach as Jesus talk, and e go make us get the mind to continue for this work. - 1 Tim.		The answers to these questions will help us not only to identify who are doing this lifesaving work but also to strengthen our resolve to persevere faithfully in it. - 1 Tim.
The better thing be sey, all the Guaymi people wey dem meet as dem dey go, really welcome dem, especially after dem learn some greeting for the language.		Yet, in the homes along that route, the Ngabe families received them hospitably, especially after the couple learned some expressions in the local language.
The one wey better pass be sey, e no let other people mistake and the bad thing wey dem do am, make am leave.		Most important, he did not allow the imperfections and wrong actions of others to separate him from.
The prison door just open.		The doors of the prison are thrown wide open.
The sister sey: " Brother Russell use 15 minutes take talk to me about wetin I plan to use my life do for. "		She related, " He took 15 minutes with me to discuss my spiritual goals. "
This one mean sey go hold papa and mama, if dem no correct their pikin well! ( 1 Sam.		Yes, holds Christian parents accountable if they fail to provide needed discipline to a child!
This work wey dem take their mind dey do, dey make happy! - Ps.		How such willing workers certainly must make 's heart rejoice! - Ps.
Thomas talk sey: " Especially if na matter wey serious, me and my wife dey want make sure sey our pikin really believe wetin e dey learn, and make the things make sense to am.		Especially on important points, " says Thomas, " my wife and I want to know if our daughter really believes what she is learning and if it makes sense to her.
Today, e fit still be say, e go take time for us to fit remove partial from our heart.		Today, we too may need time to uproot prejudice from our heart.
Twenty brothers and sisters wey don do missionary work before for Portugal, dey among dem.		It was heartwarming to have 20 brothers and sisters who had served as missionaries in Portugal return for that historic event.
We don talk before sey, person must get the right as firstborn before Messiah go come from im family.		We have at times made comments to that effect.
We go learn about how the example of people wey serve for olden days fit help us trust sey no go leave us. E go support us as we dey try do wetin we fit do to help ourself and other people.		Using faithful examples from the past, we will examine how we can trust in to support us while taking whatever action we can to solve problems and help others.
We self fit choose sey na we go worship.		We too can choose to worship.
Wetin tell Joshua wey give am mind?		What encouragement did Joshua receive?
Wetin be the main thing wey go make young people plan wetin dem want do for?		What is the primary reason for setting spiritual goals?
Wetin dey their mind pass na jolly jolly. Dem no love God and people.		In addition, brazen conduct and gross immorality were rampant.
Wetin happen to Israel people when save dem from Egypt, show how person wey no get faith fit come get strong head.		We find an example of how lack of faith can harden hearts in the case of the Israelites whom delivered from Egypt.
Wetin we fit learn from prophet Micah example?		What can we learn from the example of the prophet Micah?
When we come back, we dey go preach to people wey dey the area wey we park our house put.		Then after moving on, we would return and call on those in the area where we had been parked.
You dey put body for the preaching work like Jesus?		In addition, Jesus devoted himself to the work of preaching and teaching the good news.
You still remember wetin make Jephthah and Hannah be like each other?		Did you realize what else Jephthah and Hannah had in common?
paragraph 13 ) Check Organized to Do 's Will, pp.		paragraph 13 ) See Organized to Do 's Will, pp.
for person to get sense wey go save am?		become wise for salvation?
Flesh ' get different different meaning for Bible.		The Bible uses " flesh " in different ways.
Na only when person do all this things, e go fit promise for prayer to use im life serve am. After this one, the person fit baptize to show people sey e don really give im life.		Only after taking such steps can a new disciple make a valid dedication to in private prayer and then publicly symbolize this dedication by getting baptized before onlookers.
To settle the matter, the apostle dem come choose seven brothers from the congregation wey go make sure sey dem treat everybody well. All this brothers get Greek name.		To settle this issue, the apostles appointed seven men to make sure that nobody was neglected.
Na true sey make us to dey pity for people and help dem.		Yet, while humans were created to be compassionate, our imperfection as descendants of Adam inclines us toward self - interest.
But im brother Jacob no be like that. E make sure sey e marry person wey dey serve! - Gen.		What a contrast he was to Jacob, who made sure to marry a worshipper of the true God! - Gen.
But we dey learn some of dem now.		We, however, receive much of that education now.
Make we dey show love like this people even if e no easy.		Like those faithful men, we want to show love, despite the challenges we face.
Jesus happy because e do wetin show sey e love God and people.		Showing love for God and for others made Jesus happy.
Every week, na about 120 people dey baptize for Ghana.		Each week of the year, on average, 120 individuals are baptized in Ghana.
How take give im Son mind?		How did encourage his Son?
How you de feel about the lesson wey you learn from this example?		How does that lesson affect you?
Wetin Psalm 106 talk sey happen to Israel people because dem no do wetin tell dem?		According to Psalm 106, what happened to the Israelites because of their disobedience?
Which question dem we go answer for the next topic?		What questions remain for the next article to answer?
You Value Bible Well Well?		Do You Highly Esteem 's Own Book?
So dem get everything wey dem need.		As a result, " they lacked nothing. "
You Dey Show Sey You Get ' Better Sense '?		Do You " Safeguard Practical Wisdom "?
You Dey Copy How Take Dey Judge Matter?		Do You Share 's Sense of Justice?
That ' promise ' na part of wetin God talk sey e go do.		That " promise " clearly is part of God 's expressed purpose.
The Good Thing Wey One Sister Do		One Act of Christian Kindness
Before e reach 20 years, e don start to follow. And when e come reach 20 years, e start to remove all the juju wey dey Judah.		When he was still a teenager, " he started to search for the God of David, " and by the time he was 20, he began to cleanse Judah of idolatry.
Na wetin make Naboth sofri tell Ahab sey: ' E no go make sense at all for side make I give you the property wey be my papa - papa own. '		Naboth 's refusal was based on 's law to the nation of Israel that forbade the permanent sale of one 's tribal inheritance.
The night before dem kill Jesus, e pray well well to sey e go continue to do wetin want.		In earnest prayer the night before his death, Jesus reaffirmed his determination to do the will of God.
Pet.		That is what wants for you.
Tim. 4: 1 - 3 ) But this one no mean sey person go just marry because of the way body dey do am when e young.		Nevertheless, a person should not be prompted to marry because of surges of passion that may come in youth.
After, we come go train people wey dey translate for Zimbabwe and Zambia.		Next, we taught the course in Zimbabwe and then in Zambia.
After e baptize, e talk sey: ' I waste my time well well before I come know sey to serve na im dey make person happy pass, no be to dey do things wey people for this world dey call enjoyment. Na the only thing wey I regret be that. '		After his baptism, he said: " The only regret I have is that I lost so much time before I realized that serving brings far more happiness than pursuing the entertainment offered by this world. "
After some weeks, I begin go meeting for the place wey Brother Hardaker de use as clinic.		A few weeks later, I began attending Christian meetings at Brother Hardaker 's medical clinic.
All this example wey we talk about, give Martha better reason to believe sey " when the last day reach, " im brother Lazarus " go come back to life again. "		Martha clearly had reason to be confident that her faithful brother, Lazarus, would " rise in the resurrection on the last day. "
All this letter don help me. My husband brother wey im name na Dennis, and im wife, wey be Mavis don still help me. My senior brother children don still support me. Their name na Ruth and Judy.		These letters, along with encouragement from Arthur 's brother Dennis, his wife, Mavis, and my nieces Ruth and Judy, have helped me more than words can express.
And wetin make me really happy be sey, as I dey stay with my children for here, e dey help dem fit continue their preaching work. "		And what makes me really happy is that this living arrangement allows my children to continue their fruitful ministry here. "
Another thing wey we fit do to help dem na to help dem see sey e make sense to dey live our life the way God want am. ( Isa.		Another way is by helping them to see the wisdom of living by godly standards.
Anybody wey never use swear wetin e no go do, and wey no take wayo mind swear. ' ( Ps. 24: 3, 4; ftn. )		Anyone. who has not sworn a false oath by My [ 's ] life, nor taken an oath deceitfully. "
Apostle Peter talk sey make we dey carry body down ' because God no dey support people wey dey carry shoulder, but e dey show favor to people wey ' dey carry body down. - 1 Pet.		The apostle Peter stated: " All of you clothe yourselves with humility toward one another, because God opposes the haughty ones, but he gives undeserved kindness to the humble ones. " - 1 Pet.
As other brothers and sisters hear this greeting, e help make their faith strong too.		And hearing those loving greetings surely encouraged other Christians, helping them to remain firm in the faith.
As we dey try to sabi preach pass before and as we dey gather mind to preach, people dey see us.		As you gain skill and confidence in preaching the good news, your spiritual advancement will be evident.
As we dey use every chance take dey preach this good news give other people, we dey make dem sabi favor!		When we zealously preach this good news to others, we truly glorify 's undeserved kindness!
Bible talk about many war wey people fight.		Many battles are mentioned in the Bible.
Bible talk sey death no go dey again! go comot am. ( Isa.		will swallow it up forever!
But get law wey im dey follow, and e dey follow am finish. ( Ps.		But is faithful to his own standards; he never violates them.
But e get one man for inside wey no agree with wetin Brother Russell dey talk.		One objector in their midst was swiftly handled by skillful use of the Scriptures.
But the truth wey I learn from Bible, come make me do everything wey I fit do to be God friend.		But learning the truth moved me to make the needed effort to be a spiritual person.
Dem still go meet other brothers to make their faith for God strong pass before.		Additionally, they use the opportunity to strengthen the brothers.
Dem talk sey Bethelites fit get more chance to invite each other because more time go dey after closing.		The announcement stated that more will likely be inclined to show and accept hospitality with fellow Bethelites when the meeting ends earlier.
E dey only care about imself, e no dey care about other people.		Their main interest in life is themselves.
E do wetin bad well well for eye. For many months, the brother no go tell elders wetin e do.		A brother named Daniel, for example, committed a serious sin, but for several months he hesitated to approach the elders.
E fit no easy to bear at all.		This can be a serious test.
E fit no hard us to trust when we get problem wey big pass us.		When we face problems that seem too much for us to deal with, it may be easy to see the need to rely on.
E go help una remember the different different way I take dey teach, like Jesus, as I dey teach for all the congregation for everywhere. ' ( 1 Cor.		He will remind you of my methods in connection with Christ Jesus, just as I am teaching everywhere in every congregation. "
E good make person wey dey serve dey keep beard beard?		Is it proper for a brother today to have a beard?
E good make we ask ourself: ' I dey do wetin go make people wey dey around me serve well?		We might well ask ourselves: ' Do I contribute to the spirituality of those around me?
E hard Jesus disciples to follow im example because dem no understand everything wey e do. Na after e give dem holy spirit, dem come understand well.		Even the apostles could not fully understand Jesus ' actions until they received holy spirit.
E make me know say people care about me.		It made me feel really welcome.
E regret im plan and wetin e choose when e dey young?		Does she feel that she set the right goal and made the correct decision as a teenager?
Even if you make am do wetin you want, that one go make am come serve?		Even if you succeed in making him do what you want, will you win him over to the truth?
For 1 Peter 5: 7, Bible talk sey: ' Throw all the things wey dey worry una give am because e get una for mind. '		First Peter 5: 7 states: " Throw all your anxiety on him, because he cares for you. "
For 1943, Brother Nathan H.		In 1943, Brother Nathan H.
For example, e get one mathematics professor for the prison wey ask us about wetin we believe.		After closely observing our good behavior, a prisoner who was a professor of mathematics was moved to ask about our beliefs.
For example, people wey dey study things wey dey outside this earth, no go fit tell us how things take come or why we and other things wey get life dey this earth.		For instance, astronomers cannot tell us exactly how the universe came into existence or why we are on planet Earth with its abundance of life.
For inside Awake!		Awake!
How? That person go work well well and e no go stop to find the better things wey dey inside Bible, wey money no fit buy.		Such students need to work hard and keep on searching the Scriptures to find priceless wisdom.
How Peter take help one woman wey die?		How did Peter help a Christian sister who had died?
How congregation fit help you make you no too dey worry?		How can the congregation help you to reduce anxiety?
How dem take dey do am?		How so?
I be wuna brother. "		Your brother. "
If the person wey we dey preach to like wetin we talk, brothers advise us sey make we read Bible verse wey talk about how life go be for God Kingdom.		If a householder showed interest, it was suggested that we read scriptures describing life under God 's Kingdom.
If we see sey person do wetin we suppose praise am for, why we no go praise am?		If we see something that merits commendation, why hold back?
If you de do things with brothers and sisters, e go help us dey as one, and you go just be like that oil.		Why not be resolved to have a positive influence, promoting unity among your brothers and sisters?
Im mama don old and e dey sick.		One day, she soiled her clothes.
John write sey: ' Dem dey talk good things about Demetrius. We self dey talk good things about am, and you know sey wetin we talk na true. '		In fact, we too are bearing witness about him, " wrote John, " and you know that the witness we give is true. "
Make we dey train ourself to know wetin like, even for matter wey Bible law no dey. Na this one be the fourth thing wey go help us continue to know where we suppose do reach.		Fourth, our personal sense of decency and respectability will be refined when we train our conscience according to Bible principles.
My two leg swell up sotey I tell my family sey make dem go leave me.		My feet were so swollen that I told my family to go on without me.
Na so still dey do.		Is attentive in that way? Yes, indeed!
Na this one make am talk sey make we " no follow this kind people waka. " ( 2 Tim.		Hence, he gave the warning to " turn away " from those whose love is misdirected.
One newspaper for 1944 wey show the picture of brothers as dem dey advertise the assembly for Mexico City.		A 1944 magazine clipping showing a sandwich - sign parade in Mexico City
Or some times we fit like to do another thing instead of to go meeting?		Or at times we may simply prefer to do something else instead of going to the meetings.
Other people know sey na David arrange make dem kill Uriah.		Others were aware of how David had arranged to have Uriah killed.
People go like to listen to us if we dey respect dem and dey show dem sey we get dem for mind.		As you show respect for others and take a personal interest in them, it is more likely that they will respond in kind.
Show me! '		Show me! "
Small time, this Kingdom go comot all the government wey dey this world. - Read Psalm 2: 2, 7 - 9.		Very soon this Kingdom will remove all human governments. - Read Psalm 2: 2, 7 - 9.
So, Paul picture wey we dey draw for our book match with how dem describe Paul for olden days.		Thus, our artistic presentations are in line with some ancient indications of what the apostle looked like.
So when problem come, ' no let your hand weak '!		So when you face pressures and problems, " do not let your hands drop down "!
So work come full everywhere.		So there was a lot of work to do.
That morning, as John dey try open one big iron drum, e cut im hand and blood come dey rush.		That morning, however, John cut his finger badly while opening a large tin barrel.
That one mean sey papa and mama suppose take their time and no tire to teach their pikin.		Thus you will need to manifest patience and perseverance in teaching your children.
That time, the country join dey fight World War II.		At the time, the country was embroiled in World War II.
The first time wey I come Bethel, I dey young, and I never marry. That time, na about 10,000 publishers dey Philippines.		When I first came to Bethel as a young, single brother, there were about 10,000 publishers in the whole country.
The man stand for my papa front tell am sey, " Try nack me, you this fear fear man! "		The doctor put his face right up in front of Father 's and said, " Why don 't you hit me, you yellow coward! "
The next day, the people wey come, many well well sotey the place no reach dem. "		The following day, they had outgrown the venue. "
The sixth and seventh vision go help us value the chance wey we get to serve God for im organization wey clean.		The sixth and seventh visions will help us appreciate the privilege we have to serve in God 's clean organization.
The sound wey the bomb dey make as e dey fall, dey make person fear well well.		The bombs whistled, and you could hear them falling, adding to the terror.
The truth be sey, Paul talk sey throne na ' throne of favor ' and e sey make we get ' free mind to talk ' when we want pray.		In fact, Paul calls 's throne " the throne of undeserved kindness " and invites us to approach it " with freeness of speech. "
The truth be sey, we no fit count the stars.		To us, stars are indeed without number!
Them de invite us make we come chop with them for their house. But them de invite us for night so that people no go see us together.		They would have us over for dinner, but they had to do so under the cover of darkness.
Then I go continue with wetin I want tell dem.		Then I continue with the point of my story.
Think about the things wey dey do today, and how you fit take do more for im work.		Consider what is doing in our time and how you can have a share in his service.
Think am for your mind sey, you dey travel with motor for night.		Imagine that you are traveling on a journey.
This na because I know sey I dey do everything wey I fit do to make happy. "		After reaching this conclusion, Lucy wisely chose to overlook the negative remarks.
This na because the missionaries dey go the Theocracy 's Increase Assembly for New York, U.S.A. for 1950.		They were to help out while the missionaries were attending the 1950 Theocracy 's Increase Assembly in New York, U.S.A.
This one fit be the time wey that heavy rain fall for Noah time. E mean sey the time wey dem take do the work pass 1,600 years!		Instead, they stayed in their assignment until their work was done, perhaps at the time of the Flood, over 1,600 years later!
This one mean sey, we no go wear any cloth wey tight sotey e come dey show how our body be or cloth wey dey show part of our body wey people no suppose see.		That would rule out wearing clothing that exposes or accentuates private parts of our anatomy.
True true, we suppose use all our mind support as King.		Surely 's sovereignty merits our wholehearted support.
We come from different place and dey speak different language. But the love wey we get for dey make us happy and serve am with one mind.		Such love unites people of all backgrounds, races, and tongues in happy association to serve " shoulder to shoulder. "
We fit still do like that. - w16.02 - E, pp.		We can try to do similarly. - w16.02, pp.
We know say this world go end for the time wey want - am.		When acts, it will be at the right time.
We talk before sey Timothy know wetin Bible talk and e really believe am.		As we have seen, Timothy had ( 1 ) knowledge of the Scriptures and ( 2 ) conviction about his beliefs.
We try help dem know sey e no too good to quick marry.		We tried to help them appreciate that it is best not to marry too young.
Wetin be the things wey for destroy Bible and spoil the message?		The Bible survived what sorts of threats?
Wetin e good make Christian get for mind if e want get gun wey e go dey use protect imself from other people?		What factors should affect a Christian 's view of keeping a firearm for protection against other humans?
Wetin go help us settle quarrel with brothers and sisters?		What will help us to overcome minor disagreements with fellow believers?
Wetin we suppose get for mind when we want choose wetin we go do?		What do we need to bear in mind when exercising our freedom to make personal choices?
When I see how people like my husband reach when e dey alive, e dey make me happy.		It has also been heartwarming to learn how much Arthur was loved.
When the angel see this one, e talk say: " Make you no fear Mary, because God dey happy with you. "		Seeing this, the angel said: " Do not be afraid, Mary, for you have found favor with God. "
When the war end, Gleissner help the brothers for Austria many times because e know people for government.		After the second world war, Gleissner repeatedly used his influence to help the in Austria.
Why Peter tell the brothers sey make dem dey do good to each other?		Why did Peter urge his brothers to show hospitality?
Why e good to get faith, to dey pray about the matter and to take am easy with your pikin?		Why do you need to be faithful, patient, and prayerful?
Why we fit talk sey marriage na gift wey give us?		Why can it be said that marriage is a gift from God?
You no go believe sey na the first time wey I join sign - language congregation be this!		Actually, this is the very first time that I have been part of a sign - language congregation.
You see sey e show im faith with the things wey e do and im faith come dey complete because of wetin e do. '		You see that his faith was active along with his works and his faith was perfected by his works. "
You think sey we fit win all this strong enemy?		Is it really possible to defeat such powerful opponents?
Daniel remember how e feel when e hear the talk.		Daniel recalls, " I had the feeling that was talking to me. "
Later, Paul still preach the good news for front of Porcius Festus wey take over as the new governor, and for front of King Herod Agrippa.		That was a right that other Jews had under Roman law.
Paul come tell dem why some things wey people dey talk no correct, and why people believe am.		Paul went on to explain why some popular ideas were wrong and why worldly thinking may be appealing to imperfect people.
But, if we no dey careful, we fit begin love ourself too much. - w18.01, p.		Of course, self - love can become distorted. - w18.01, p.
spirit make Daniel write sey ' Messiah the Leader go come. '		And Daniel was inspired to write about the coming of " Messiah the Leader. "
And we don learn to love other people.		And we have learned to show love to others.
But after, Peter come regret wetin e do and come still dey use am do im work.		However, Peter showed remorse, and continued to use him.
Wetin happen for South Africa wey make am hard for brothers to fit do things together?		What situation can pose a challenge to Christian unity?
Like other people wey don baptize, e go continue to learn about. - Rom.		Like other baptized disciples, he will continue to increase in knowledge of 's purpose throughout his life, even for all eternity. - Rom.
When Peter wey be one of Jesus disciple dey favor brothers wey be Jew pass brothers wey no be Jew, apostle Paul correct am. Paul go don need strong mind to fit correct Peter.		Similarly, the apostle Paul no doubt had to muster up courage to provide correction when Peter, one of the 12 apostles, showed favoritism toward his Jewish brothers.
The first one talk about one plant wey them de call vine.		The first one is about a vine.
When I dey 17 years, before they carry me go army		At age 17, before I was drafted into the army
Wetin command Barak to do?		What initial instructions did give Barak?
Satan no be like. E sey no dey rule well. But how the world wey Satan dey rule be? Many people no dey do wetin good.		In contrast, despite his allegation that 's sovereignty is deficient, Satan has been unable to produce a world wherein justice always prevails.
Aaron and Hur come stand near am, one dey for im left, the other one dey im right, dem come hold im hand make e no come down, and na so im hand come dey till evening. '		Then Aaron and Hur, one on each side, supported his hands, so that his hands remained steady until the sun set. "
After many years, Joseph come be the second oga for Egypt, because of the better work wey e don do.		After many years, the good work that Joseph had done in Egypt resulted in his becoming second to the ruler of that country.
And I thank sey the different different work wey organization sey make I do that time, really help me learn how to do things with different different kind of people wey I meet!		How thankful I am that my earlier assignments helped prepare me for the unique challenges of dealing with such a diversity of people!
Another serious matter wey fit make bless us, na matter about whether to pioneer and how we go take do am.		Another serious decision that holds the potential for many blessings is how and when to enter the full - time ministry.
Anytime wey I come house, me and Arthur dey wash plate together after everybody chop finish.		When I visited, Arthur and I would volunteer to wash the dishes after meals.
Apart from that one, Mary " put all the things wey e talk for mind. "		Furthermore, she " kept all these sayings in her heart. "
As im mama dey try to clean im body, two Witness wey dey always come see am knock im door.		The visitors turned out to be two who regularly called on the woman.
As papa and mama dey teach their children, dem want make dem know Bible well. This one go make the pikin want give im life.		It is fitting that as teachers in the family, parents want their children to gain a solid foundation of knowledge on which a dedication may be based.
Because of this one, the verse come dey talk sey na the wicked strangers go get the better things wey verse 12 to 14 talk about.		As a result, the good things mentioned in verses 12 to 14 were applied to the wicked, who were mentioned in the preceding verses.
Because of wetin dem do me for prison, my body and leg dey pain me sometimes, especially after I don close for preaching.		Because of my old injuries, my body and feet sometimes ache, especially after I share in the preaching work.
Bible tell us sey: " Power and joy dey " where dey. ( 1 Chron.		God 's Word states: " Strength and joy are in his dwelling place. "
Bible tell us wetin we go do to run from sex wey no clean for God eye.		God 's Word teaches us how to keep far away from sexual immorality.
But Jesus give them strong correction.		Jesus firmly rebuked them.
But Kim no dey live that kind life.		Kim had no such stories to tell.
But Moses tell am sey: ' You dey jealous dem because of me?		But Moses replied: " Are you jealous for me?
But after, e see - am say na that correction e need and the correction show the love wey get. ( Heb.		But later he realized that he needed the firm counsel and that it was an expression of 's love.
But after sometime, we no come dey see am as anything again. "		But after a while, the somewhat difficult situations really just became new experiences.
But e no hold tight as friend, and e no really want make glad.		But he failed to cultivate a close bond with or a fervent desire to please him.
But now e don pass 200,000 publishers wey dey Philippines. And the Bethelite wey dey there many reach 435.		Now there are well over 200,000 publishers in the Philippines, with hundreds of Bethelites serving to support the vital preaching activities.
But quick quick, e tell im papa sey mek e do wetin e don promise.		But immediately she made a beautiful reply, encouraging her father to keep his promise to.
But that one mean sey we go wahala ourself about wetin we go wear?		Even so, must we be " anxious about clothing "?
But wetin we " want " na something wey we go like get but we fit still dey live our life even if we no get am.		A " want " is something you would like to have, but it is not essential for everyday living.
But when the drink clear for im eye, e go stop to dey laugh. E fit start to dey think about im problem again.		However, when he sobers up, he laughs no more, and he may return to a life full of sorrow and troubles.
Dem carry Daniel go Babylon and the people for there no dey serve God. Na juju dem dey serve.		Daniel lived as a captive in Babylon, a city filled with idolatry and spiritism.
Dem dey worry theirself about wetin dem no suppose worry.		They were anxious about things they ought not be anxious about.
E come dey read topic for our magazine wey talk about regular pioneer work, and e pray about the matter.		Concerned, he set the goal of becoming a regular pioneer and read articles on that topic in our magazines.
E dey forgive us.		Being forgiven of our sins.
E dey pain us sey we go leave all our Bible student dem. '		We were so sad to leave our Bible students behind. "
E dey welcome people wey want use their life serve am come im organization.		He accepts as his worshippers those who dedicate themselves to him.
E fit be sey even Jesus think like that.		Even Jesus could have felt that way.
E fit don learn am for house and for synagogue, when e still dey young.		She had learned of these as a youth at home and at the synagogue.
E get one Kingdom Hall wey dem build for Honduras. The brothers and sisters wey dey use the new Kingdom Hall talk sey: " We dey happy sey we dey part of family wey dey heaven and earth. And e dey sweet us sey we get brothers and sisters for the whole world. We dey hope sey one day we go get Kingdom Hall.		After beginning to use their new Kingdom Hall, the members of one congregation in Honduras wrote: " We feel truly happy to be part of 's universal family and to enjoy our wonderful worldwide brotherhood, both of which helped to make our dream of having a Kingdom Hall in our community a reality. "
E get one family for Japan wey still do the same thing.		Consider also the example of a family in Japan.
E still de use film, music, game, and picture to make people de like things like magic, witchcraft, and other things about demons.		Movies, electronic games, and other media make spiritism seem exciting.
Even if e no easy for us to do am, na we go happy pass if we do am. - Read Isaiah 48: 17.		That is so even if his requirements involve our making some sacrifices. - Read Isaiah 48: 17.
Even if na only coffee I give my visitor, I dey happy to gist with dem as we dey drink am together. "		I have enjoyed simply sitting down with guests over coffee and talking. "
Even with that one, dem force us to trek for around 12 hours from our village reach one place wey be Mount Olympus.		We pleaded that we were Christian neutrals; yet they forced us to march to Mount Olympus, about 12 hours from our village.
For May 1, 1949 I come be regular pioneer.		On May 1, 1949, I became a regular pioneer.
How holy spirit take dey help us bear problem?		Describe the role of holy spirit in helping us to cope with our problems.
How person wey know where e suppose do reach fit choose the correct thing?		How can modesty help us to make better decisions?
I no fit wait to see am again when go bring am come life!		I cannot wait to see her again in the resurrection!
I still dey happy say good brothers help me. Some of them na J.		I still cherish the help I received from such experienced brothers as J.
If organization tell brothers wey dey lead sey make dem do something, wetin dem suppose do?		How should appointed men respond to the direction they receive from God 's organization?
dey value people wey stand well for im side ( Check paragraph 14, 15 )		views as precious those who maintain their integrity ( See paragraphs 14, 15 )
don already tell us the kind people wey im dey choose as friend. So if we no want stop to be friend, make we do everything wey we fit do so that we go dey do things like and Jesus. ( Ps.		Cultivating our friendship with involves striving to imitate God and Christ more closely and being the sort of people they want us to be.
want make Israel people dey feel for each other.		His people were to be compassionate.
Jesse and Lynn Cantwell na one of dem.		One couple, Jesse and Lynn Cantwell, helped me greatly.
Jim, wey we don first talk about, come dey change when one elder draw am near body.		Jim, mentioned earlier, began to soften his attitude when an elder took a personal interest in him.
Judges chapter 4 and 5 go help us see sey like am when we use our mind serve am and do wetin e tell us.		Judges chapters 4 and 5 indicate how appreciates it when we willingly rally to carry out his clear direction.
Just like the Kingdom of God, Satan don make e own fake government and na e be the king of that government.		These rebels, however, are not just a mob of troublemakers.
King David na another example of person wey control imself.		The Bible offers a notable example in King David.
Later, na Eunice I come marry.		She would later become a very important part of my life - she became my wife!
MEMORIAL invitation dey among the things wey we dey give people for preaching pass.		THE Memorial invitation is one of the most widely circulated publications that we print.
MY JUNIOR sister, Araceli, vex for me and e come shout for me, sey: " No talk to me.		MANY years ago, my younger sister Araceli got angry and shouted: " Stop talking to me.
Make we de greet even if e be like say people no value - am.		That is so even if it seems to go unnoticed.
Make we talk about some of dem.		Let us consider some.
Me and Maxine come do missionary work together for Puerto Rico, so I no come travel with the new boat.		Maxine and I were assigned as missionaries to Puerto Rico, so I never went out on the new boat.
Na 1933 dem born me for one village wey dem dey call Zolotniki for Ukraine.		I was born in Ukraine in 1933 in the village of Zolotniki.
Na around 45,000 quarts ( 42,600 L ) we dey keep every year wey Bethelites go use.		About 45,000 quarts ( 42,600 L ) of fruits and vegetables a year were canned for the entire Bethel family.
Na so our mind still dey come down when we get ' the peace wey God dey give. '		In a similar manner, when we have " the peace of God, " our hearts and minds remain at rest.
Na true sey person fit talk wetin no be lie and e no go still be true? How?		How does being honest go beyond simply not telling outright lies?
Na two times Bible tell us sey before Jesus do miracle wey e take give plenty people food, e first pray. ( Matt.		On two reported occasions, Jesus first prayed and then miraculously provided food for large crowds.
Na wetin make David write for Bible sey: ' Who fit climb mountain, and who fit stand for im holy place?		David wrote: " Who may ascend to the mountain of, and who may stand up in his holy place?
One book talk sey, na when person use all im mind do good thing for us and e no collect anything, even when wetin e do no suppose reach our hand.		He used a Greek word that, according to one reference work, has the sense of " a favour freely done, without claim or expectation of return. "
Other people don think like that too. ( Acts 6: 8, 12; 7: 54 - 60 ) Some people wey they say them de serve God don do plenty bad things.		That was true of those who murdered the disciple Stephen, and it has been true of others like them.
Release Una, Dec.		Exercise Your Faith in 's Promises, Oct.
Show me where Bible talk sey Jesus no be God.		Show me where the Bible says that Jesus is not God.
So, as long as we remain with Jesus and copy e example, we too go get joy. ( John 4: 34; 17: 13; 1 Pet.		Similarly, as long as we remain in union with Christ by closely following in his steps, we experience the same joy that he has in doing his Father 's will.
So, how brothers and sisters dey manage preach for this area?		How do the publishers adapt to this situation?
So, if we start to like this bad things, e fit comot the love wey we get for.		Can we take the risk of allowing any of these things to control us, so that is no longer " one " to us?
So, when body don tire you and you no happy, wetin you go do? Make you near more more.		When you feel physically and emotionally drained, then, do not cut yourself off from.
So na continue to lead Israel people, because na im give Moses holy spirit to fit do the work.		By empowering Moses with holy spirit, continued to lead His people.
Sometimes, when we get problem with each other Brother Woodworth go sey na good thing sey even with the sin for our body, God still dey use us do im work and e dey help us change.		When on occasion the imperfections of others proved challenging, Brother Woodworth would say, " It sure is marvelous what the Lord has done with what he has to work with. "
Stand well		Use good posture
The advice wey dey Colossians 3: 12 - 14, go fit still help you when person do wetin you no like.		Applying the Bible instruction just cited, Colossians 3: 12 - 14, may be a good starting point if someone hurts you.
The apostles come use the money take help the brothers and sisters wey need help.		The apostles distributed these funds to those in need.
The branch office get one serious problem, and the brothers for Branch Committee don do everything wey dem fit do.		The branch being visited was facing a serious situation, and the members of the Branch Committee had done all they reasonably could.
The message wey give Ezekiel show sey hope dey for Israel people, sey dem go be one again when dem go back to the Promise Land.		gave Ezekiel a message of hope promising the unification of the nation of Israel after its being restored to the Promised Land.
The miracle wey God do for dem, mouth no fit talk am finish!		The nation saw God perform many miracles in their behalf, some truly awe - inspiring!
The people wey dey lead for synagogue tell dem sey: ' Men, brothers, if una get any word wey go make the people strong, make una talk am. '		The presiding officers of the synagogue there told them: " Men, brothers, if you have any word of encouragement for the people, tell it. "
The place touch the man sotey e sey make the brother read am again.		The householder was so moved by those words that he asked our brother to read the scripture a second time.
The reason na because I want marry Gloria. Na Gloria and e sister invite me for meeting that time wey I go book study.		Why? I had decided to take a bride - Gloria, one of those two young ladies who had invited me to the book study!
The truth be say, when we really dey happy, we go fit continue with the preaching work, even for the place wey plenty people no de listen. - Matt.		Indeed, deep - seated joy gives us the strength to keep on preaching even in challenging territories. - Matt.
Then, make you choose the verse wey go bring out the main point for the outline.		Then use selected scriptures to teach the points in the outline.
This love dey make people near each other well well.		This kind of love is the highest form of love.
This one done make im faith for God and Bible strong well well. "		This has done wonders for her faith in God and in the Bible. "
This one really show sey people get one mind, dem no be like other people. Many people wey dey go Catholic church and Protestant church before come join us dey serve.		We were thrilled to see so many Catholics coming into the truth and serving alongside brothers who were once Protestants.
This topic answer this question.		Find the answers in this article.
We happy well well sey as dem finish secondary school, dem start to pioneer, and dem learn work to support theirself.		We were so grateful when both daughters started pioneering after finishing high school, and they developed skills to support themselves financially.
We know sey as we don baptize, we suppose preach everytime the way Jesus do.		We realized that as baptized Christians, we needed to preach regularly in imitation of Jesus.
We no dey wear the new character because we want make people dey praise us. We dey do am to make happy.		Our motive for clothing ourselves with the new personality must be to honor, not to win praise from men.
Wetin Jezebel do so that dem go kill Naboth?		What role did Jezebel play in Naboth 's murder?
Wetin be number one thing for your life?		What are your priorities in life?
Wetin cause am?		What problems?
Wetin the chariot and the people wey dey ride dem mean?		What do they and their riders represent?
Wetin we fit learn from Israel people example?		What important lesson about decision - making do we learn from Israel 's history?
When dem read wetin dey the Law give am, e come see sey e need to still do more things to fit serve well.		Still, when what may have been the original writings of the Mosaic Law were found and read to Josiah, he saw the need to do God 's will more fully.
Which hope we get because of God favor?		Thanks to God 's undeserved kindness, what hope do we have?
Which kind bad things people dey do today, and wetin we go do?		What worldly influences exist today, and what must we do?
Why people get one mind?		Why should we expect God 's people to be united?
Why e be sey people wey dey serve fit enjoy their marriage?		Why is it possible for Christians to have a happy and successful marriage?
Why e good make we no forget why we de preach?		Why is it important to keep clearly in mind why we preach?
No wonder God use Paul warn Christians that time sey make dem no ' dey put mind for the flesh. ' - Rom.		It is understandable, then, why God used Paul to warn Christians about " setting the mind on the flesh. " - Rom.
The elders wey go judge the matter need to find out if wetin the person do really pain am.		When they serve on judicial committees, they must carefully determine whether a Christian guilty of serious sin is repentant.
So na bad thing those angel do as dem marry women and start to born children.		Hence, he must have known that sexual unions between women and materialized spirits were both unnatural and wrong.
If we dey go meeting with our brothers and sisters we go fit help dem dey strong.		We can show we care about our brothers by meeting together to encourage one another.
Today, still get that kind mind for people wey repent and wey really want do wetin e want. - Ps.		shows the same largeheartedness today toward those who sincerely want to merit his favor. - Ps.
Wetin e talk really give e apostles strong heart!		How strengthening this promise must have been for the apostles!
Make dem try do wetin go make their marriage work. This one go show sey dem like how dey rule.		By making the best of their situation and even seeking to improve it, they uphold 's righteous way of ruling.
Wetin young people go gain if dem plan to use their life serve?		What effect do spiritual goals have on our relationship with?
How Philippians 2: 13 and 4: 13 fit help brothers get mind?		How can Philippians 2: 13 and 4: 13 help brothers to develop courage?
How you don take show sey you dey patient with your pikin?		How have you found the need for similar patience?
Wetin go fit help us know wetin go make happy, for the kind book wey we dey like to read, video game wey we dey like to play, or film wey we dey like to watch?		When we are choosing entertainment, how can we know what is pleasing to?
Which kind work dem go do for us that time?		What wonderful work will the anointed do for mankind?
Dem no face problem wey other people never face before. And any of dem wey dey serve well fit bear the problem dem.		None of those trials were beyond human experience or above the ability of faithful Israelites to bear.
As we understand wetin want for us, and the reason why e make us, this one dey give us joy.		Do we not rejoice over our understanding of 's will and purpose?
E get one time wey Jesus wash im disciples leg.		Jesus even washed the feet of his apostles.
But, we thank for im promise wey no dey fail. E go raise all of dem come life again, come put dem for paradise where sin no go dey again. - Ps.		Nevertheless, thanks to 's unfailing promises, they will be resurrected to perfect human life in an earthly paradise. - Ps.
If you self continue to serve well, you go fit bear wetin happen.		Your faithfully worshipping can help you to do the same.
All of dem fine. Dem no dey sew cloth wey dem go wear.		These creations do not have to spin thread and sew or weave garments for themselves.
All of us get sin for body. ( Eccl.		That said, we are all prone to sin.
And because the man don be papa, more work don come for am.		On the other hand, a new father has new responsibilities to shoulder.
And e no go hard us to preach, if the chance come.		Yes, and we will feel free to give a witness as we have an opportunity.
And na Memorial be the meeting wey special pass.		Remember, congregation meetings are part of our worship.
Apostle Paul talk something about this matter for the letter wey e write give the brothers for Corinth.		Under inspiration, the apostle Paul described the actions of repentant Christians in Corinth.
Army, wey im name na James Franklin Bell, tell Brother J.		Army revealed in a conversation with Brothers J.
Because e make us know sey, our suffer no be because dey vex for us.		Because it means that our trials serve a purpose.
Because of this one, e no come easy for some of dem to leave their old life come begin serve as e want.		Because of that, some had difficulty accepting the new way of worship or fully relinquishing their former ways.
Bible make us know sey: ' Whether na yesterday, today or forever, Jesus Christ no dey change. ' ( Heb.		The Scriptures reassure us that " Jesus Christ is the same yesterday and today, and forever. "
Bible talk sey many people die. E sey: ' [ Nebuchadnezzar ] use sword kill their young men for their holy place; e no pity for young man or virgin, old people or sick people. '		Regarding the bloodbath that followed, the Bible says: " [ Nebuchadnezzar ] killed their young men with the sword in the house of their sanctuary; he felt no compassion for young man or virgin, old or infirm.
But, e fit happen. For example, Paul talk sey some brothers for Rome na ' slave of wetin dey hungry dem. ' E fit be sex matter wey no clean for God eye, food, drink, or other matter.		For example, Paul wrote that some among the brothers in Rome were slaves " of their own appetites, " which could have been sexual appetite or appetite for food, drink, or other things.
But make we do everything wey we fit do to help people now.		Instead, we need to do all we can now to help people.
E good make we dey pray sey make give us free mind and help us to fit see the advice wey dey the part for Bible wey we want read. - Ezra 7: 10; read James 1: 5.		Before reading God 's Word, we do well to pray for an open mind and for wisdom to discern the lessons that wants us to learn. - Ezra 7: 10; read James 1: 5.
E no good make any Christian start to do the things wey the flesh want.		Sadly, any Christian could begin to walk according to the sinful flesh.
E no just do this one because e dey work for the king.		Hushai did not simply do so out of a sense of duty as a court official.
E promise sey if help am win the fight, e go give the first person wey go come out from im house, when e come back. This person go be like ' sacrifice wey dem burn for fire. '		He promised that if He gave him the victory, he would offer as " a burnt offering " to Him the first person who came out of his house when he returned from the battle.
Everything dey, because you want am like that. " ( Rev. 4: 11 ) True true, reach to get all the praise and respect wey we fit give am.		Would you not agree that is worthy of all the glory and honor that we can give him by offering the best that we have?
For example, na the same people wey I start primary school with, I dey with until I finish school. In short, for our town, you know almost the name of everybody and they know your own.		In my school, the people you were with in first grade were the same ones you finished school with; in fact, you knew the names of most people in town, and they knew yours.
For me, e dey special pass any special diamond and I happy say I marry Gloria!		To me, she is like the Hope Diamond - but I don 't have to hope in this case. I married her!
For meeting, we dey get chance to show our brothers and sisters sey we love dem.		At the meetings, we have opportunities to show our brothers and sisters that we love them.
For there, I see one woman wey sey make I study Bible with im two girls wey be twins. Their name na Jean and Joan Rothenberger and dem be deaf.		There I met a mother who asked me to study the Bible with her deaf twin daughters, Jean and Joan Rothenberger, who were students at the same school for the deaf that I once attended.
For this topic, we don learn about some of the better things wey don give us. We don still see wetin we go do to show sey we value dem.		Satan and his world are constantly seeking to weaken or destroy our appreciation for the spiritual treasures we have discussed in this article.
Genesis 22: 6 tell us wetin e come do. E sey: ' Abraham carry the wood wey e want use do offering wey dem burn for fire give Isaac im pikin.		THE Biblical account found at Genesis 22: 6 states that, in order to prepare to offer a sacrifice at a distant location, Abraham " took the wood for the burnt offering and put it on his son Isaac.
Gianni wey we first talk about, talk sey: ' I come notice am sey my friend don change.		Gianni, mentioned earlier, recalls: " I realized that something had changed.
Governing Body know sey song na part of wetin we dey use serve. Na this one make dem give us better songbook wey get the same cover with our new Bible.		Also, because singing is an integral part of our worship, the Governing Body wanted to produce a high - quality book that matches the cover of the revised New World Translation.
How Micah 6: 8 fit help us, as we dey try to choose the kind cloth wey like?		How does Micah 6: 8 help us as we strive to let our style of dress be pleasing to God?
How our meeting take dey help us and other people to dey strong?		What part do our meetings play in our giving and receiving encouragement?
How you see the work wey organization dey do today?		How do you feel about the greatest building work going on today?
I go use make mouth; people wey no dey carry body up go hear and dem go happy. ' - Ps. 34: 1, 2		And it may well be that as a result of your ministry, meek ones will joyfully join you in true worship.
I still dey bethel dey serve and I dey enjoy am.		I still enjoy serving God at Bethel.
If e be sey na time for enjoyment plenty pass, you no think sey you suppose do something about am? - Read Ephesians 5: 15, 16.		Might there be a need to cut back on " dessert "? - Read Ephesians 5: 15, 16.
If e dey hard you to preach for open place, no tire.		If you find public witnessing challenging, do not give up.
If e do wetin the people want, e no go enjoy some of the good things wey e de enjoy. E family and the servants for palace no go enjoy this things too.		If he met the people 's demands, he, his family, and those of his court might have to cut back on some luxuries and make fewer demands on the people.
If e don happen to you before, wetin you do?		If so, how did you respond?
If you want enjoy work, whether you dey Bethel or anywhere, you need to remember why the work wey you dey do dey good.		The challenge of being happy at Bethel is the same as it is elsewhere: You have to focus on why what you are doing is important.
Instead we go do wetin go make people praise. This one go make the curse wey dey the scroll no reach us.		Thus, we may succeed in escaping 's judgment against those who deliberately violate his law.
no correct Elihu because na different thing e dey talk.		He was saying that does not depend on our worship.
send Joshua to tell Israel people sey: ' Make una choose different different city wey person fit run go if e kill person by mistake. '		himself commanded Joshua: " Tell the Israelites, ' Select for yourselves the cities of refuge. ' "
Make we see wetin we fit learn from Timothy. - Acts 16: 1 - 3.		Consider the example of the Christian disciple Timothy. - Acts 16: 1 - 3.
Na bad thing for God servant to cry if person die even when e believe sey resurrection dey?		Is it wrong for a Christian to grieve even while believing in the resurrection?
Na small thing dey make me vex. E don reach three times wey me and my wife leave each other.		My wife and I were separated three times and were in the process of getting divorced. "
Na true sey person fit dey happy even if e no serve God?		How can we analyze the worldly idea that one can be happy without serving God?
Na true sey you no go join dem do that kind thing. But, how e go be if, for your mind, you come dey think sey wetin dem dey do good and you dey pray sey mek dem win?		Of course, you would not join those who are rebelling, but would you think that the rebels are right and hope that they are successful?
No use the eye wey you take dey look your former congregation take look the new one.		Avoid comparing your new congregation with your previous one.
No wonder many people for the world don dey stop to love God.		Hence, among people who do not worship God, love continues to grow cold.
Paul no boast about the things wey e do before e become Christian. And for Bible, e no talk how im body be. ( Acts 26: 4, 5; Phil.		Paul did not boast over his accomplishments before becoming a Christian; nor did he describe his physical appearance.
Person fit add join the joy wey e get?		Can an already joyful Christian increase his joy?
Plenty church people dey feel sey dem dey preach the good news.		Many religious groups feel that they are preaching the Gospel, or good news.
Remember sey e good to always encourage people wey their person die. Make we no just wait for only the time wey special thing dey happen.		Bear in mind, though, that bereaved ones need encouragement not only on special occasions.
So, even though sey e no happy as dem kill Jesus, Joseph run go where dem kill am to carry the body. - Mark 15: 42 - 45.		So now Joseph, his heart still heavy, hurried back to the execution site. - Mark 15: 42 - 45.
So, we no go shame to talk sey we be Witness.		Thus we will be proud to identify ourselves as 's.
So e good make you think about wetin you want use your life do.		So think about what you want to do with your life.
So if person kill person, the elders go first know everything wey really happen.		First, the elders needed to establish the facts.
That one make dem do good things.		Their courage was not overconfidence.
The Law still talk sey when person don promise something, ' mek e no change mouth.		The Law also said that when a person makes a vow to, " he must not violate his word.
The Sanhedrin dey settle matter		The Jewish Sanhedrin in session
The first person wey we study Bible with wey come dey do well na Chris and Mary Kanaiya.		Our first progressive Bible study was with Chris and Mary Kanaiya.
The man wey carry wetin person take dey write and the six men wey carry wetin dem take dey scatter things for Ezekiel chapter 9, who dem be?		Whom do the man with the secretary 's inkhorn, mentioned in Ezekiel chapter 9, and the six men with weapons symbolize?
The matter about who fit rule us well, how e serious reach?		How important is the vindication of 's sovereignty?
The village wey dem go far reach 53 miles ( 85 km ) from where dem dey stay. really bless dem!		Despite the obstacles, Sylviana 's dream had come true - and what a fine blessing she received!
Their example fit help us mek we no fear.		Their examples can help us to have courage.
Then, you fit show them our jw.org website, and the different - different video and other books wey we get for their language. - Deut.		You might then be able to direct them to jw.org and show them the variety of videos and publications available in their language. - Deut.
This brothers and sisters dey for where dem dey call Lusaka, for Zambia. Dem dey happy as dem dey go preach.		An enthusiastic field service group leaving for witnessing activity in Lusaka, Zambia.
This earth and everything wey dey inside for be their own forever. - Ps.		Earth, with all its resources, was to become their permanent home. - Ps.
This newspaper show picture of brothers with the paper wey dem wear, as dem dey advertise the assembly for street.		The article featured a picture of brothers on the streets of Mexico City.
This one go make Jesus and the angels dey protect you.		Then you can remain under the protection of our King and High Priest and of the heavenly riders of the chariots.
To fit keep the sweet mind and hope wey we get, make we no forget wetin don promise us, e sey: ' See!		To maintain our deep joy and firm hope, we want to keep clearly in mind the comforting promise of: " Look!
To show sey you value the preaching work, wetin you don ready to do?		What are you determined to do to show your love for our lifesaving ministry?
Today, church people dey preach like Jesus and im disciple dem?		How have the churches of Christendom measured up in this regard?
We dey sure sey, if we no tire, go bless us. - Read Genesis 39: 21 - 23.		We can trust that if we do so, will bless us. - Read Genesis 39: 21 - 23.
We fit ( 1 ) dey trust ourself instead of, ( 2 ) begin follow bad friend, ( 3 ) start to raise shoulder, or ( 4 ) do wetin dey our mind before we check wetin dey Bible.		We might ( 1 ) unwittingly rely on human wisdom, ( 2 ) turn to bad associations, ( 3 ) become haughty, or ( 4 ) make decisions without first considering what God 's will is.
We learn sey na give us life, and e get why e make human being.		We learned that is our Creator and Life - Giver and that he has a purpose for mankind.
Wetin David come do? - 1 Chron.		How did David react? - 1 Chron.
Wetin I want choose go make happy? '		What decision will please? '
Wetin Israel people for do to show sey dem support the people wey God give holy spirit?		How should the Israelites have responded to clear evidence that those men were empowered by holy spirit?
Wetin Jephthah and Hannah promise? E easy for dem to do wetin dem promise?		What did Jephthah and Hannah vow, and how easy was it for them to pay their vow?
Wetin make dem get am? Na because dem get faith for God and dem dey patient.		They are among " those who through faith and patience inherit the promises. "
Wetin we dey do when our brothers dey wahala, and wetin this one show?		What qualities of God 's people become particularly evident in the aftermath of disasters?
Wetin we fit learn from people for Bible time wey show sey dem get mind?		How can we benefit from the example of those who in the past displayed this quality?
Wetin we go put for mind when we dey choose the kind cloth wey we go wear?		What should guide our personal choice as to our dress?
When Jesus ask Peter sey, ' You love me pass this things? '		When Jesus asked Peter: " Do you love me more than these? "
When Rehoboam want advice about how e go take do im work as king, na people wey senior am e first go meet.		When Rehoboam needed advice on how to handle his responsibilities, he first asked the older men.
When dem know wetin dey cause their problem, e no go hard dem to bear.		And that is true of tribulation related to married life or to family life.
Which four things we fit do to help us sing well?		What are four things we can do to improve our singing?
Which people dey preach about God Kingdom for ' the whole world '?		What group of people are preaching that message in " all the nations "?
You de feel sometimes say the laws wey de give too heavy for you, or they no de allow you do things wey you like?		Do you sometimes feel that 's righteous standards weigh you down or restrict your freedom?
You go stop to serve because elder talk wetin pain you?		Will you allow yourself to be stumbled if an elder thoughtlessly makes a statement that offends or hurts you?
You need to dey patient.		First, be patient.
Make una come back to me and I go come back to una. ' - ZECH.		Return to me,. and I will return to you. " - ZECH.
call una comot from darkness come inside im light wey good well well. ' - 1 PET.		called you out of darkness into his wonderful light. " - 1 PET.
Apostle Paul talk sey make we no dey think about ourself pass as we suppose think, but make we dey use better mind think. - Rom.		The apostle Paul wrote: " I tell everyone there among you not to think more of himself than it is necessary to think, but to think so as to have a sound mind. " - Rom.
For Ephesus, apostle Paul meet many people wey dey vex for am.		In Ephesus, Paul faced an angry crowd.
[CONTENT_REMOVED]		See paragraphs 7, 8 )
Husband wey love im wife dey listen to am and e dey let im wife know sey e value wetin e talk.		A loving husband honors his wife by listening to her opinions and by assuring her that he values what she says.
example go fit help us know how to control ourself even as we get sin for body.		Even so, in order to understand the quality of self - control, we need to examine 's example so that we can better imitate him.
E dey try to know wetin want, and e dey try to see things the way dey see am.		This means that they make an effort to have 's thinking on matters and to look at things from his point of view.
God still promise us sey, e ' go comot death forever, and go clean the tears ' wey dey people eye. ( Isa. 25: 8, ftn. )		God promises that " he will do away with death forever, and the Sovereign Lord will wipe away the tears from all faces. "
Why Jesus talk sey poor people go always dey?		Why such inequality?
E talk why e good make everybody wey don give their life suppose use am preach about God Kingdom.		He emphasized that all dedicated Christians need to use their lives to the full in proclaiming the good news of God 's established Kingdom.
When we need to control ourself?		In what situations must we restrain our emotions?
Wetin help one brother after im wife die?		How was one brother strengthened after his wife died?
Why we suppose respect and praise?		Why is especially worthy of honor?
How you go behave if elders give that kind talk?		If you are aware of the situation described in the talk, will you take care to avoid socializing with such an individual?
How servant take dey treat government people?		How do 's view government officials?
And I don still win! ' - Gen.		I have also come off the winner! " - Gen.
And Satan come promise wetin e no fit do: ' Una go be like God, come sabi wetin good and wetin bad. '		Further, Satan made this false promise: " You will be like God, knowing good and bad. "
And dem get better character wey dey make dem do good things for people, and dey pity people. Dem dey make mistake like us.		They, like us, have battled weaknesses and imperfections while trying to develop those godly qualities.
And dem ready to go preach about God Kingdom for far place where people no too many for Australia.		Arthur Willis and Bill Newlands were just two of the zealous pioneers determined to take the good news of God 's Kingdom to the vast Australian outback.
And how we fit continue to allow God spirit to direct us?		How can we grow spiritually?
And how we fit run go meet when we sin?		And what does it teach us about how we can take refuge in him today?
And our mind no go dey judge us again! ( Heb.		Good news indeed to share with others!
And the ' good people ' na people wey e dey sweet dem to do wetin like.		The meek are those who humbly accept 's teaching and guidance; the righteous are those who love doing what is right in the eyes of God.
And the one wey bad pass na if we come let other people mistake make us leave and im people.		An even greater mistake would be to allow the faults of others to stumble us and cause us to leave 's organization.
Another thing be sey, e bring us come life together again and make us sitdown for the place wey dey for heaven with Christ Jesus, so that for the new world wey dey come, e fit show us im favor as e plenty reach because e get good mind for us, with Christ Jesus. ' - Eph.		Moreover, he raised us up together and seated us together in the heavenly places in union with Christ Jesus, so that in the coming systems of things he might demonstrate the surpassing riches of his undeserved kindness in his graciousness toward us in union with Christ Jesus. " - Eph.
Anybody wey no gree with wetin church dey teach, dem go punish am well well.		Any dissent from what the church taught was severely punished.
Apostle Paul talk sey Timothy start to learn about from small pikin.		The apostle Paul stated that Timothy had learned Scriptural truths from infancy.
As e be sey im family no dey there, e come dey miss dem and e come be like sey make e go back.		Being far away from his family, he felt alone and homesick.
As e remove head from pillow make e get up, na im e see snake. No be small wahala the snake cause before I kill am!		When she raised her head from the pillow to get up, out came a snake that caused quite a commotion until I killed it!
As time dey go, Witness people come dey understand wetin Bible talk about war and politics well.		s progressively refined their understanding of the issue of Christian neutrality.
Ask yourself, ' How I want make people treat me, if na me dey suffer like dem? ' - Matt.		Ask yourself, ' If I were in their position, how would I like to be treated? ' - Matt.
Bible still show sey e pain am well well.		His daughter ' wept over her virginity. '
But, you go gree forgive am?		Would you be able to forgive him?
But before we do anything to protect ourself, e good make we follow wetin dey Bible.		While Christians may take reasonable steps to ensure their personal security, they do so within the framework of Bible principles.
But dem never win the fight, and dem go still fight 15,000 soldier.		But they had not yet won the war, and they still had to fight 15,000 soldiers.
But for some people wey still dey stay for their house when dem make this kind contribution, na when dem die, the branch office go take am.		The donor may receive an income - tax deduction for the year in which the gift annuity is established.
But na still day when person suppose think well well about wetin e mean for am to give God im life and baptize.		It is also a time for sober reflection. Living up to one 's dedication involves hard work.
But no be so Jesus see dem.		Yet, Jesus did not adopt a negative view.
Dem dey do the meeting for forest, if weather good.		These were held in the woods, weather permitting.
Dem still trust even when plenty army come fight dem.		They even did so when they faced formidable foes.
E carry the pikin go tabernacle ( where dem dey worship ). bless Hannah for wetin e do.		blessed Hannah for her self - sacrificing spirit.
E fit be sey dem get some better character pass you. Character like faith, to dey endure and get mind. This one go make the love wey we get for dem strong, and e no go hard us to do good for dem.		Finding ways that our brothers or sisters are superior to us - be it their faith, endurance, fearlessness, or some other Christian quality - will deepen our love for them and open the way for genuine and healing hospitality.
E fit be sey you need to arrange yourself well so that you fit dey get time to help people learn wetin dey Bible.		Perhaps by making a few changes in your schedule or lifestyle, you can have a greater role in sharing God 's precious truth with those who are in need of hope.
E get one time wey two people come see us as we dey halla for each other. ' - CHRIS.		Once when we were yelling at each other, two people came in and witnessed our blowup. " - CHRIS.
E go happy well well if e no reach your hand.		The Devil has no interest in your salvation.
E just be like when person start to serve because of im wife better character. - 1 Pet.		Just as husbands can be won without a word by the conduct of their wives, others can be drawn to God by the humility shown by his people. - 1 Pet.
E sey: " I for like o, but I no get shoe. "		She said: " I want to, but I can 't.
E sey e no too sabi Bible like that and e no want mek other people know sey e no too sabi.		Gavin explains that he knew very little about the Bible and did not want others to know this.
E talk say: " Anytime wey I talk true, my conscience no de judge me because I know say de happy.		When I 'm truthful, " she says, " I have a clean conscience before.
E talk sey na give us everything wey we get. And na from the things wey e give us we dey give am back. - Read 1 Chronicles 29: 11 - 14.		When explaining the needs of the upcoming project to build the temple, King David acknowledged that everything we receive comes from and that whatever we give to is from what he has already given us. - Read 1 Chronicles 29: 11 - 14.
E tell Luigi sey e go tell the company wetin happen so that dem go quick repair the motor.		He offered to contact Luigi 's insurance company to speed up the claim.
Even with that one, Jesus hold the girl hand and e tell am sey: " My pikin, stand up! "		Still, Jesus took her lifeless hand and said: " Child, get up! "
Every second, the kind heat and light wey sun dey bring plenty well well but na only small heat and light dey reach this our earth because na wetin we need be that. ( Ps. 74: 16; Isa.		Although only a small amount passes through our globe 's atmosphere, it is enough to provide adequate heat and light to sustain life on earth.
FOR the topic before this one, we learn about the lie wey Devil talk about. E sey no dey rule us well. E still sey our life go better if no be God dey rule us.		AS DISCUSSED in the preceding article, the Devil contends that exercises his sovereignty in an unworthy way and that mankind would be better off ruling themselves.
For 1956, we enter circuit work and we start to visit different different congregation.		In 1956 we began visiting congregations in the circuit work.
For dry season when every where dey hot for Israel, many months fit pass and rain fit no fall.		During the hot, dry season in Israel, it may not rain for several months.
For the new place wey e dey, e get many people wey understand wetin e dey face.		In her new circumstances, Kyoko found herself surrounded by individuals who could understand her feelings.
Hebrews chapter 11 talk about 16 servant of God wey use their freedom well; dem follow wetin talk.		In Hebrews chapter 11, we find the names of 16 servants of God who chose to use their free will within the limits set by.
If person see me, e go think sey I near well well, because I dey always go meeting, and I dey auxiliary pioneer sometimes.		I looked spiritually strong, being at all the meetings and serving as an auxiliary pioneer a few times a year.
If the person wey do this bad thing no change, dem go disfellowship am so that congregation go still clean for God eye. ( 1 Cor.		If he is unrepentant, the wrongdoer would be disfellowshipped in order to maintain the spiritual purity of the congregation.
If we dey treat dem well, even when we no too get things to give dem, e go make dem know sey love dem.		Even though we may be limited in the material or practical help we can provide, our kindness to them reflects 's love for them.
If we love and dey respect the person wey first invite us, we no go behave like that.		Would that be loving and respectful?
James write for Bible sey: ' Who get sense and who sabi something among una? Make e use im better character do wetin show sey e get cool temper wey person wey get sense get. '		In fact, God 's Word associates that disposition with wisdom. " Who is wise and understanding among you? "
Joseph get one new grave for near the place wey dem kill Jesus.		Close to the execution site, Joseph had a new rock - cut tomb.
Make dem make sure sey dem dey put eye for how the people dey help the children.		Parents must not merely turn their children over to others for spiritual training.
Make we see other things wey don do for us wey go help us get joy.		What else has provided that gives us reason for joy?
Make we see some of dem.		Consider the following:
Make we talk about two way wey holy spirit de help us get peace.		Let us consider two ways in which God 's spirit can help us find peace.
Makrnisos island dry well well, water no dey there and stone full everywhere. E dey where dem dey call Attica coast and e dey around 30 miles ( 50 km ) from Athens.		The bleak, waterless, sun - drenched rock called Makrnisos sits on the Attica coast about 30 miles ( 50 km ) from Athens.
Maurizio no come dey tell me wetin dey im mind like before.		Maurizio was not as open with me as before.
Na another way wey we fit show sey we like how dey rule.		By our respectful cooperation, we show our support for 's sovereignty.
Na only when dem resurrect am, na im this one go take happen.		That could come about only by his being resurrected to life again.
No let Satan put fear for your body or make you stop to serve.		Do not let Satan use fear itself to weaken your morale or break your integrity.
No place for Bible talk so. Abraham no know when im pikin go come life.		Abraham could not know when his son would be raised to life again.
One sister talk why e no want make im pikin baptize. E sey: " Shame dey catch me to talk am. The main thing be sey, I dey fear sey if my daughter baptize, e fit do wetin go make dem disfellowship am. "		In explaining her reasons for discouraging her daughter from getting baptized, one Christian mother stated, " I am ashamed to say that the major reason was the disfellowshipping arrangement. "
Paul get the right wey Rome person get.		Paul, a Roman citizen, deserved a proper trial.
Pay any money wey you dey owe		Pay off any debts that you have
People wey sitdown for inside the hall, talk sey the big banner wey dem use three color do, just sofri roll come down.		Eyewitnesses described how smoothly the large, three - colored banner unfurled.
Read the whole song with loud voice, and make e clear.		Read the lyrics out loud in a strong, confident voice.
So, Bible come advise us sey: ' Apart from all this one, make una wear love like cloth, because na im dey join everything together, to make am complete. ' - Col.		Fittingly, the Bible 's description of the new personality concludes with this powerful truth: " Besides all these things, clothe yourselves with love, for it is a perfect bond of union. " - Col.
So, wetin we fit talk about the family wey Jesus, the Messiah come from?		Consequently, what can we conclude about the line of descent leading to Jesus, the Messiah?
So as I dey read English Watchtower, I dey check Vietnamese Watchtower.		For the most part, I learned by comparing the English and Vietnamese editions of The Watchtower.
So how I take continue to get strong faith when I dey English congregation since 1946? Na help me.		Imagine that! Being in an English congregation all those years - since 1946 - how did I fare spiritually?
So make we answer this three question: Why e good to dey tell people word wey go make dem strong?		So let us consider these questions: Why is encouragement vital?
So make we value am well well, and continue to do everything wey we fit do to know where we suppose do reach as we dey follow waka.		Cherish that honor, and continue to do your best to walk modestly with forever.
Some people fit talk sey: " Na we get holy spirit but na una dey do the work. "		Some of those whom we meet in the ministry may say: " We have the holy spirit, but you people are doing the work. "
The IUD dey release the hormone for where pikin dey grow for woman belle.		These IUDs release the hormone in the uterus.
The heavy rain wey fall spoil the water wey we want drink and we no come get better place to stay chop.		Heavy rains contaminated much of the drinking water and left us without a decent cafeteria area for the convention.
The man wey dey give talk wear long black coat, e get white hair, and white beard beard.		The man pays rapt attention to the white - haired, bearded speaker wearing a long black coat.
The other one talk say: " As they no tire to preach, e de help me make I no tire too, and e de give me strong mind. "		Their faithfulness encourages me to persevere and to be courageous in my own ministry.
The truth be sey, this people no ready to change at all! So come talk sey e go destroy dem. ( 2 Pet.		Indeed, God determined that those immoral people deserved to die.
This kind love dey make our life get head. And e dey make us happy.		When we show or are shown unselfish love, our lives are enriched, being filled with joy and meaning.
This kind thing dey help us remember the time wey dey " count go down " for another big thing wey want happen for front. Something wey we suppose put mind sey e dey come.		That scenario may help us appreciate the " countdown " for a much greater event, one that calls for us to be keenly aware of what is coming in the near future.
This one dey happen because angels dey support the work.		What contrast exists between the Governing Body and Christendom 's leaders?
We be four children and na me be second born. For our family, we no dey take play. And because our papa no take Bible play, we self come like Bible well well even as we don big.		Our family life centered on the worship of, and Father 's deep respect for the Bible nurtured in us a lifelong appreciation for God 's Word.
We know sey love us, and e want make our life sweet.		We know that cares for us and wants us to succeed.
We no let wetin the police do make us stop to preach for Armavir.		Despite the raids, we continued to preach in Armavir.
Wetin dey make person happy pass?		What riches bring the greatest satisfaction?
Wetin people wey want marry fit learn from Jehoshaphat example?		What practical lesson can we draw from the experience of Jehoshaphat?
Wetin we fit do to like the things wey we dey learn for Bible well well?		How can we deepen our love for Bible truth?
When Cain want kill Abel because e hate am, God warn am sey: " Why you dey vex like that and why you no happy?		When Cain developed a murderous hatred toward Abel, God admonished Cain: " Why are you so angry and dejected?
When dem want kill the thief, some people fit talk sey dem no judge the matter well, make dem no kill am, or make dem wait small before dem kill am.		At the prisoner 's execution, some may protest the sentence, questioning its justice or perhaps hoping for a last - minute stay of execution.
Which kind eye you take dey look Peter?		What was Peter like?
You fit don hear person talk sey: ' Na now wey I don get my own pikin I come know sey na better thing my papa and mama do for me when I small. '		You may have heard someone say something like this: ' I never fully appreciated the discipline that I received from my parents until I had children of my own. '
when people try stop Bible translation?		opposition to translation?
Go Make People My Disciple for the Whole World, ' May		Go,. and Make Disciples of People of All the Nations, " May
For this reason, e good make we de check our heart all the time.		Yet, even in this spiritually clean environment, unclean desires can take root.
True true, holy spirit fit help us remember wetin we don learn before. - Luke 12: 11, 12; 21: 13 - 15.		Yes, the holy spirit can bring back to our mind thoughts we previously read and securely placed in our treasure store. - Luke 12: 11, 12; 21: 13 - 15.
So we get that hope sey we fit get life wey no go end because of God favor.		Yes, the hope of eternal life is a gift, a wonderful expression of God 's undeserved kindness.
E use im time and power take tell people about wetin e dey learn. E even use im money, e no tight hand.		Brother Russell devoted his time, energy, and money unsparingly to share these truths with others.
So wetin Jesus talk show sey wetin God get for mind about marriage na one man and one woman. ( 1 Tim.		Jesus thus indicated that the divine standard for marriage that was set in Eden would prevail in the Christian congregation.
And ( 3 ) when people see sey we dey overdo things, shame go catch us.		And third, when it becomes clear that we have acted presumptuously, we may be embarrassed or even humiliated.
For example, one sister wey im name na Paula, dey five years when im mama leave. E pain Paula well well.		Paula recalls how sad she felt at the age of five when her mother fell away from the truth.
Wetin we fit learn from the example about the vine tree and the farmer?		What lesson can we draw from Jesus ' illustrations of the vine and of the sower?
How take dey help papa and mama do their work well?		How does God help parents fulfill their responsibilities?
Which advice Jesus give im disciples?		What admonition did Jesus give his followers?
Why e be sey person wey love and Bible, suppose love im brothers and sisters?		How is the love we have for our brothers linked to our love for God and the Bible?
E good make we dey read Bible everytime. Make we let Bible dey direct our life, and make we use am help other people.		Surely, we do well to read God 's Word regularly, apply it in our own life, and use it when helping others.
When Jehoshaphat face problem wey make am fear, wetin e do?		When facing a frightening situation, how did Jehoshaphat react?
We fit don help some people be disciple of Jesus. But wetin Jesus talk de show say the fruit wey servants of must produce, no be to make new disciples.		Hence, in this illustration, the fruitage that each Christian must bear cannot refer to new disciples whom we may be privileged to make.
Wetin young person wey want baptize need to think about?		A young person contemplating baptism should consider what weighty issues?
God Word Get Power '		The Word of God.
God love the person.		God loves him.
E fit be sey because e like truth, and e hate partial, na im make am like wetin Jesus dey teach.		Likely, he was attracted to Jesus ' message out of a sincere desire for truth and justice.
Person wey dey do sport fit get coach. But e still need to train imself.		An athlete may have a coach, but he also needs to train himself.
According to wetin e write ( Digest, 9.2.27.14 ), Ulpian wey know law well well talk about one case for the time of one Roman politician wey im name na Celsus.		According to this work ( Digest, 9.2.27.14 ), the jurist Ulpian referred to a case considered by the second - century Roman statesman Celsus.
All of us need to choose wetin good.		We need to make wise decisions.
And e fit be sey na dem dey tell John about wetin dey happen for all this congregation dem.		Perhaps it was by this means that John received news about these congregations.
Apart from that one, ' the bad things wey people dey do for the world ' come too much and na only bad things ' dey their mind every time. ' - Gen.		Moreover, " man 's wickedness was great on the earth " and " every inclination of the thoughts of his heart was only bad all the time. " - Gen.
Apostle Paul know the kind wahala wey Satan lie fit cause. But no be all Christian for im time know.		The apostle Paul was alert to the danger that satanic propaganda posed, but not all his fellow Christians were.
As language dey change, na so the different language wey dem take translate Bible, still dey change.		The reality that languages change over time also applies to the languages into which the Bible has been translated.
Before person wey dey study Bible go baptize as Witness, dem go first ask am two question for front of people.		Before qualified Bible students are baptized as 's, they are asked in front of onlookers to respond to two questions.
Bible talk sey: ' Things wey dey worry person for mind dey make am weak but better word dey make am happy. '		Anxiety in a man 's heart weighs it down, but a good word cheers it up.
But dey see am sey e die for you. ( Gal.		Rather, have faith that the ransom applies to you.
But the place no fine reach the face of the brothers and sisters wey come the convention.		The beauty of the surroundings paled in comparison with the radiant joy on the faces of those present.
But this topic no dey the one for German language.		However, this article did not appear in the German edition.
Check wetin Bible talk about the matter, and discuss am with person wey don dey serve tey tey.		If you hear a worldly idea that seems to challenge your faith, research what God 's Word says on the subject and discuss the matter with an experienced fellow believer.
Dem come tell Michael papa and mama make dem pass back of where soldiers dey check people and meet dem for the other side.		The newcomers then told the parents to walk around the back of the border post and meet them on the other side.
Dem dey do things together well now anytime wey dem go preaching.		Now they get along well as they preach the good news.
Dem no be like people wey Bible sey ' dey waka for road, ' wey no want suffer anything for life. But this people wey follow Barak go the war ready to fight for where dem dey call Tabor wey stone full, and where dem dey call Kishon wey water cover.		Unlike those " who walk [ ed ] on the road, " preferring the easy way, those who went with Barak were willing to do battle on the rocky slopes of Tabor and in the swampy valley of Kishon!
Do wetin you learn		Apply what you learn
E fit be sey Timothy dey around 20 years when apostle Paul invite am make e dey travel with am go do work for different different place.		Timothy was probably in his late teens or early 20 ' s when the apostle Paul invited him to become his traveling companion.
E fit still be sey na person go be the sacrifice no be animal. This one mean sey the person go use all im life serve God till e die		A person could also be given to as a burnt offering, meaning that the person would serve God for the rest of his life
E get one girl, im name na Kim.		Consider Kim.
E go run go the one wey near am pass.		He had to flee to the nearest city of refuge.
E sey: " na the Spirit, and where spirit dey, freedom dey there. " - 2 Cor.		In his second letter to the Corinthian Christians, for example, he clearly stated: " is the Spirit, and where the spirit of is, there is freedom. " - 2 Cor.
E talk sey: " Yes o!		Yes, absolutely!
E trust. After, e still show dem how dem go take escape. ( Josh.		But with confidence in, she courageously hid the two men and helped them to get away safely.
Even though e don be Christian for some time, all the brothers for Jerusalem ' still dey fear am, because dem no believe sey im na disciple. ' - Acts 9: 26.		Some time after he became a Christian, the brothers in Jerusalem " were all afraid of him, because they did not believe he was a disciple. " - Acts 9: 26.
Even though sey na the group of elders for Jerusalem dey direct congregation that time, dem know sey na Jesus be their Leader.		Although that governing body had authority in the early congregation, they acknowledged that their Leader was Jesus.
Everybody wey dey serve suppose think this matter well and tell imself truth.		Every Christian needs to think carefully and honestly about being forgiving and having peaceful relations with others.
For 1947, I go Karachi back go find work.		In 1947, I returned to Karachi in search of work.
For 36 C.E., people from other country come de be disciple of Jesus.		In 36 C.E., the disciple - making work became much more international.
For Israel time, how dem take arrange the way dem dey sing?		How extensive were the arrangements for singing in worship in ancient Israel?
For some women, the hormone dey make dem no release egg.		It appears that such IUDs suppress ovulation in some women.
For this wicked world wey Satan dey control, sometimes we dey face problem wey fit make us no happy.		In this wicked system controlled by Satan, all of us at times face discouraging circumstances.
Full - time service dey make you know other people wey dey full - time.		Full - time service brings you into contact with fellow full - time servants and helps you to mature as a Christian.
God resurrect Jesus go heaven as spirit person. This na the first time wey this kind thing dey happen.		The resurrection of Jesus was the first of that sort, and it undoubtedly is first in importance.
God use Jesus take free us from sin and death because e want make we use all our life take serve am.		Thus, the real purpose for which, through Jesus, has freed us from the law of sin and of death is for us to live a life of dedication " as slaves of God. "
Hospital, doctor, nurse, mortuary and grave no go dey again!		No hospitals, doctors, nurses, or health insurance; no morgues, funeral homes, undertakers, or cemeteries!
How Jesus take show sey e love people?		How did Jesus show love for others?
How we go take talk to our family people?		How should we speak with unbelieving relatives?
I de shame that time.		I think I was embarrassed.
If person do wetin make you vex, wetin fit help you control your temper and still do wetin go make happy?		If someone treats you harshly or unfairly, what can help you to keep your emotions in check and to react in a way that brings joy to?
If we dey carry body down and ready to settle quarrel, peace go dey congregation		If you humble yourself and strive to make peace, you may obtain excellent results
If we no want put hand for politics or war, one thing wey go help us ready our mind na to see government the way see dem.		One way we can prepare now to remain neutral is to think of human governments the way does.
If you de talk and do good things, e fit draw them come learn the truth.		Your kind words and deeds may well attract a neighbor to the truth.
If you want make person take your advice, use better word wey good for ear.		You nail down counsel by giving encouragement.
Im mind come down well well when e read Psalm 46; Zephaniah 3: 17; and Mark 10: 29, 30.		He found great comfort in reading Psalm 46; Zephaniah 3: 17; and Mark 10: 29, 30.
Jennifer come tire, as no plane dey come carry dem.		One flight after another got canceled.
Jesus believe sey if im Papa wey dey heaven fit give bird food, e no get as e be wey e no go give people wetin dem need. ( 1 Pet.		For Jesus, it was unthinkable that his heavenly Father would provide food for the birds but not take care of the same basic needs of humans.
Jesus talk story about one business man wey dey buy and sell fine fine stone.		Jesus told an illustration about a merchant who was seeking pearls.
Linda dey fear well well anytime wey e go preaching.		Linda experienced an intense fear of man whenever she engaged in the ministry.
Make we no forget wetin Jesus call people wey dey lead religion for im time.		We recall that Jesus denounced such men of his day as hypocrites and blind guides.
Make we still dey use all our mind follow the advice wey mature people for congregation dey give us.		We also need to open our hearts to counsel given by mature brothers.
Many people for this world get some things wey dem want make e happen, but dem no sure whether e go ever happen.		Those who are part of Satan 's world also have some sort of hope, but they may doubt whether theirs will ever be realized.
NA December 10, 1936 dem born me for Wichita, Kansas wey dey U.S.A. We be four wey my papa and mama born and name be the first.		I WAS born in Wichita, Kansas, U.S.A., on December 10, 1936, the oldest of four children.
Na around 1950 the truth about God really reach Kyrgyzstan. And people come dey know am.		The truth about God took root in Kyrgyzstan in the 1950 ' s.
Na only im dey different and sometimes e dey feel sey people no like am. E sey people for school dey look am like mumu because e no get boyfriend.		She admits that being different at times made her feel " abandoned and alone " and that her peers considered her stupid because she did not date.
Na our work to tell people sey dem fit be God friend.		We have the responsibility to make known to our fellow humans that they can come into a friendly relationship with their Creator.
Na people wey dey fear God, wey person fit trust. ( Neh. 7: 2; 13: 12, 13 ) Na so e still be today.		He used those who were God - fearing, trustworthy, and reliable.
Na wetin make Jesus talk wetin prophet Isaiah talk about dem, when e sey: ' Na mouth this people take dey respect me, but their mind no dey my side at all.		Quoting 's words through the prophet Isaiah, Jesus said about them: " This people honor me with their lips, but their hearts are far removed from me.
News.		The media.
Other brothers wey dem choose to join army, no gree carry gun. Dem talk sey dem want work wey no go make dem fight.		Other brothers who were drafted refused to bear arms and requested noncombatant roles.
People wey be refugee fit enter wahala as dem dey run from their place or when dem dey refugee camp.		Refugees may face danger when fleeing or when living in a refugee camp.
Pryce talk sey: " We need husband and wife wey get motor to join share the small book for the whole country. "		We need couples with cars, " Pryce said, " to engage in a special campaign to distribute the booklet throughout the country. "
Satan still dey deceive people today, even after e don make Adam and Eve leave God. - John 8: 44.		After turning Adam and Eve away from God, Satan the Devil has continued to mislead mankind until today. - John 8: 44.
Small small, Peter come start to dey think like Jesus.		Gradually, with 's help, Peter developed Christlike thinking.
So, how we fit make God our tight friend?		How can we do that?
So the people wey dey rule the city, escort Paul and Silas comot from the city by theirself. But before dem comot, dem first go tell Lydia bye bye.		But Paul and Silas insist on first saying good - bye to their newly baptized sister Lydia.
So the person wey kill another person by mistake no dey fear sey dem go come kill am for there.		The fugitive thus never had to fear reprisal.
Some people fit dey think sey this two group na people wey dey serve and people wey no dey serve, or people wey be correct Christian and people wey no be correct Christian.		Some might imagine that this is a contrast between those who are not in the truth and those who are, between those who are not Christians and those who are.
Sometimes, God fit allow us show how we want something reach.		There are times when God may allow us to demonstrate the depth of our concern about a matter.
The hotel dey center of the town, and some of our Bible student like to dey come there to study.		The hotel was in the center of town, and some of our Bible students wanted to study there.
The name wey dem write for where dem keep the different different Bible na " The Bible and the Divine Name. "		The permanent gallery of this museum is entitled " The Bible and the Divine Name. "
Then the next week, that circuit overseer go watch me as I go visit the next congregation.		Then he spent the following week observing me as I visited another congregation.
This one make us think because na only im dey go. But we come see am sey, even if I no go follow am go, e good make e go.		We came to the conclusion that even though I was to be left behind, it was right for Arthur to accept this privilege.
This one mean sey, dem need to follow advice for school matter, the kind work wey dem go do, or whether dem go marry or get pikin.		That means including in all aspects of life - education, employment, family responsibilities, and so on.
Today, everybody want make am.		In today 's competitive world, many feel that they have to stand out from the crowd in order to get ahead.
Vine de give all e branch food and water, as long as the branch remain with the vine.		A vine supports the branches.
We fit see sey we suppose help dem make dem fit learn our language.		We may realize, though, that they need practical help to learn the language.
Wetin come happen?		With what result?
Wetin we fit do to get the kind character wey like?		What might we do to cultivate godly qualities and please?
Wetin young people go learn if dem do everything wey dem fit do to do more for?		What does sharing in full - time service teach a young person?
When I dey Fulham Congregation, they still give me work for the congregation.		I also received privileges of service in the Fulham Congregation.
When dem don sabi, body go sweet dem to see sey people dey listen to dem because dem sabi talk with person well.		Those whom we help in this way will likely be delighted to see how honesthearted people respond favorably to personal interest and kind words.
When prophet Samuel no come Gilgal when e suppose come, Saul no fit wait again. Why?		When God 's prophet Samuel did not show up in Gilgal at the appointed time, Saul became impatient.
When we get am for mind sey God know wetin we dey think and do, e go make us want do wetin e like and wetin clean for im eye. - Read Matthew 5: 27, 28; Hebrews 4: 13.		Remembering that God is aware of all our thoughts and actions will reinforce our desire to please him and to remain chaste. - Read Matthew 5: 27, 28; Hebrews 4: 13.
Whether we be young person or old person, e good make all of us ask ourself sey: ' E get things wey I don dey change for my life to show sey I dey do wetin I fit do to near more more?		Whether we are young or old, we can ask ourselves these questions: ' Do I notice changes in myself that indicate that I am moving toward becoming a spiritually - minded person?
Which other thing you fit do for people wey newly come your congregation?		What further practical help can you give to newcomers?
Which question dem we go talk about for this topic?		What questions will this article discuss?
Why e come your mind to go preach for another country wey dem need more publisher?		What caused you to start thinking about serving in a foreign country where there is a greater need?
You dey fight make God bless you?		Are you wrestling for God 's blessing?
You for open mouth when you see as grass cover everywhere? Since the wall for Jerusalem don scatter finish, you for dey think of the big and strong wall wey dey Babylon?		Would you have compared the massive double walls of Babylon with Jerusalem 's broken - down walls, with large gaps where gates and watchtowers once stood?
You think sey una friendship go strong like the way e first be?		Would your relationship ever be as strong as it once was?
paragraph 1 ) Na government be the Caesar wey Jesus talk about for Matthew 22: 21.		paragraph 1 ) Jesus was speaking about the government when he mentioned Caesar.
But ] God don use im spirit show us this things. " ( 1 Cor.		For it is to us God has revealed them through his spirit. "
The People Wey Dem Give the Work " ( Cedar Point, Ohio, U.S.A., convention ), May		Reaping Fruit to 's Praise " ( Germany, World War I ), Aug. Sound Car Known to Millions ( Brazil ), Feb.
Una go. see how righteous person take different from wicked person. " - MAL.		You will. see the distinction between a righteous person and a wicked person. " - MAL.
To dey gentle, to get self - control. '		Mildness, self - control.
But when dem no do well, e sofri correct dem. E no hide anything from dem. - 1 Cor.		But when their actions did not deserve commendation, he explained the reason to them kindly and clearly. - 1 Cor.
If we go river or swimming pool go swim, make we use better cloth swim. ( Prov.		Also, when relaxing at the beach or at a swimming pool, the style of swimwear we use should be modest.
What if you just dey do this things make e no be like sey you no do am? What if you no fit bear the pain again?		But what if you feel that your heart is not in your activity, that you are just going through the motions?
Small time, Satan go deceive many people to talk sey, ' peace dey, no fear! '		Soon, Satan will deceive the masses into accepting a false sense of " peace and security. "
Jesus sabi say plenty tax collector na wayo people.		Of course, Jesus knew that corruption was common among tax collectors.
Which gift John 14: 27 talk about?		What gift is mentioned at John 14: 27?
How we go fit see by ourself sey good?		How can we " taste and see that is good "?
Na wetin one sister for Australia do be that. E sey: " My husband papa no like Witness at all.		A sister from Australia relates: " My father - in - law strongly opposed the truth.
But, nothing and nobody fit block wetin want do.		However, that challenge was by no means insurmountable.
Today, many people wey dey think well believe sey na only God go fit comot all the wahala from this world.		Many thinking people today will admit that the deplorable conditions on earth confirm that man needs God 's help.
You no too small to plan wetin you want use your life do for.		You are never too young to set goals.
Abeg, see us, because all of us na your people. '		Look at us, please, for we are all your people. "
And dem go pursue anybody wey dey follow Jesus, comot from synagogue.		Being expelled from the synagogue meant being scorned, shunned, and treated as an outcast by fellow Jews.
And e don get favor from. ' E don pass 40 years wey me and my wife dey Bethel.		Livija and I have thus been favored with over 40 years together in Bethel service.
Apostle Paul still show sey na better thing to talk wetin go make people strong.		The apostle Paul also considered encouragement to be very important.
As Demetrius Psarras Take Talk Am		As told by Demetrius Psarras
As we don talk for the topic before this one, Bible no talk about any age wey person go reach before e baptize.		As discussed in the preceding article, the Bible does not specify an age at which a person should get baptized.
Before they born me, my papa and mama get three children already. One boy and two girls.		My parents already had three children when I came along - my older brother and two sisters.
Bible no talk anything again about this better brother wey im name na Gaius.		No more is known about our dear brother of old, Gaius.
Bible talk sey na ' happy God. ' So person wey no dey serve am no fit really dey happy. ( 1 Tim.		Certainly an individual can be happy without false religion, but a person cannot be truly happy unless he has a relationship with, who is described as " the happy God. "
Brother Engleitner respect this man and preach to am as dem dey the train.		However, he was out of favor with the Nazis.
Brother Russell sey the people listen well well to im talk about the faith wey Abraham get and the blessing wey human being go get for front. The topic of the talk na, " The Oath - Bound Promise. "		Russell recounted that the " audiences were very attentive " to the subject " The Oath - Bound Promise " about Abraham 's faith and the future blessings for mankind.
But Bible tell us sey make we follow Paul example.		Yet, Christians are encouraged to imitate Paul.
But Satan and this world want make we lose this better things.		We are not immune to these tactics.
But dem dey treat people wey get money well. James come let dem know sey no like wetin dem dey do.		He showed that such conduct violated the royal law: " You must love your neighbor as yourself. "
But for this last days, all of us dey face wahala wey no easy to bear. ( 2 Tim.		But in these last days, everyone faces trials that are " hard to deal with. "
But na Zerah wey be Ethiopia person get soldier wey plenty pass other people wey Bible talk about.		But the largest army assembled was that of Zerah the Ethiopian.
But nobody sabi mold reach.		Yet, no human potter can begin to compare with.
But now, Jephthah pikin go be servant for tabernacle.		But now she would become a humble servant at the tabernacle.
Daniel and Miriam think sey the money wey dem save go reach dem stay for Panama like eight month.		Daniel and Miriam thought that by using their savings, they could stay in Panama for about eight months.
E carry Timothy follow body.		He had the young man accompany him.
E come dey hungry you to see more, so you start to check.		And you may have been eager to find more spiritual nuggets.
E come still sey: ' Make people wey get wife be like sey dem no get and people wey dey use the things wey dey the world, make dem no use am too much. ' ( 1 Cor.		From now on, let those who have wives be as though they had none,. and those making use of the world as those not using it to the full.
E dey tell me sey no oga better pass the one wey e dey work for.		She would say, ' I have the greatest boss ever! '
E dey tell us how to prepare the fruit and vegetable before we put am inside container.		She was responsible for the recipes that we used in our canning.
E go make dem stop to serve?		Would they allow themselves to be stumbled?
E greet Prisca and Aquila. E say e de thank them, and " all the congregation for different - different country still de thank them. "		Paul greeted Prisca and Aquila, " to whom not only I but also all the congregations of the nations give thanks. "
E no get any other work wey dey make person happy reach this one.		No other career offers satisfaction like that.
E still talk sey doctor help am, e learn how to manage im time well, and e get time to dey do exercise and rest.		I also sought medical help, made changes in the way I managed my time, and set aside time to relax and exercise.
E sweet me well well to get friend full everywhere for the whole world!		And what a blessing it is now to have dear friends all over the world!
Enoch wey be Noah great - grandpapa do wetin God like.		Noah 's great - grandfather Enoch also " kept walking with the true God. "
Even if no be we dem come meet, we still dey suffer because of their bad work.		We are sickened at heart when we learn of their horrible acts.
For 1992, dem come make me elder, and na me be the first Kyrgyz person to become elder for the country.		In 1992, I was appointed to serve as an elder, the first Kyrgyz elder in the country.
For 2012, some people dig pieces of one clay pot come out. The pot don old reach 3,000 years.		The shards of a 3,000 - year - old ceramic jar unearthed in 2012 recently stirred the interest of researchers.
For Ireland, the time wey I start to pioneer; we dey tell people about one convention wey we want do ( under )		Advertising a convention during my early pioneering days in Ireland
For garden of Eden, Satan talk sey we no need God to tell us wetin good and wetin bad.		In Eden, his argument was that each individual can and should decide what is good and what is bad, doing so independent of God.
For the years wey don pass, I study Bible with many people and 11 of dem come baptize.		Over the years, I studied the Bible with many people, and 11 of them got baptized.
God put everything wey dey the Garden for Adam hand.		Regrettably, Adam was not content with his God - given assignment as cultivator and caretaker of the earthly paradise.
How Governing Body take dey arrange their work?		How does the Governing Body function?
How e take be so? E be like that because all the blessing wey we go enjoy for God Kingdom na because get good mind well well and na Jesus Christ e go use bless us. ( Eph.		The message we spread is also " the good news of the undeserved kindness of God " because all the blessings we hope to receive under Kingdom rule come to us through 's kindness expressed by means of Christ.
How the hope wey Noah get take make im faith strong?		How did hope reinforce Noah 's faith?
If we no really want do something, Satan fit force us?		Can Satan force us to act against our own will?
Dey Arrange Im People as Bible Talk, Nov.		Is the Bible Still Changing Your Life? May
don give us elders to help us.		Consequently, appreciate 's provision of " gifts in men, " congregation elders.
no leave Joseph and make everything wey e do succeed. '		was with Joseph and made whatever he did successful. "
Jesus self dey gentle. ( Matt.		Jesus was " mild - tempered. "
Jesus talk say: " If any of my branch no produce fruit, [ ] de remove - am. "		Speaking about his Father, Jesus stated: " He takes away every branch in me not bearing fruit. "
Make we see some of the way wey take dey help us:		Consider some of the ways that may make the way out for us:
Many times, David see sey na God holy spirit give am power.		The psalmist David often experienced the power of God 's holy spirit.
My mama and papa baptize as Witness for 1934.		My parents got baptized as 's in 1934.
Na just eight years I dey that time.		I was only eight years old at the time.
Na some Jew people wey sabi copy book put verse for the part of Bible wey dem use Hebrew language write. Robert Estienne put verse for the part wey dem use Greek language write. - wp16.2 - E, pp.		Jewish copyists first assigned verses to the Hebrew Bible, and in the 16th century, scholar Robert Estienne did likewise for the Christian Greek Scriptures. - wp16.2, pp.
Na there we dey for two years before the Catholic sisters for there come carry us go another big convent wey dey Zaragoza, where dem dey take care of old people.		Two years later, the nuns sent us to a large convent in Zaragoza that cared for older people.
Nadine sey when e wake up for morning, e dey happy to go preaching.		When I get up in the morning, I say to myself, ' It 's great - I 'm going preaching today! ' "
No matter how e be, we know sey Joseph no happy because the people for the Sanhedrin do partial. But Joseph no get power to stop dem.		Whatever the case, Joseph must have felt wretched about that dreadful perversion of justice - but he could do nothing to stop it!
Nothing go fit stop to do wetin e get for mind because na im be the Almighty and na im get sense pass.		Because is almighty and all - wise, nothing can stop him from fulfilling his purpose.
One brother for India get coconut farm. E come carry plenty coconut go give the brothers wey dey Malayalam remote translation office.		A brother in India who has a coconut farm contributed a large number of coconuts to the Malayalam remote translation office, reasoning that since the office needs to buy coconuts, his supplying them directly will help his contribution to go further than it would if he gave cash.
One example wey dey Bible help us know the answer.		An example from the Bible gives us the answer.
One sister use Bible and the book The Harp of God take teach us Bible lesson.		One of the sisters there gave us children Bible lessons based on the Bible and the book The Harp of God.
Paul first help dem remember sey, no be food go make dem near God more.		First, Paul reminded both sides that food would not bring them nearer to God.
Paul know sey God favor no be wetin suppose reach im hand as e be sey before before, im work na to punish people wey be Christian.		Paul was very much aware that he had neither earned nor deserved God 's great mercy, having been a former persecutor of Christians.
Paul use all im power preach for that town, and e love other ' holy people ' for there. ( 1 Cor.		We can contribute to the spiritual cleanness of the congregation by following the direction found in God 's Word.
Since we self dey preach, make we do wetin Paul tell Timothy.		As Kingdom proclaimers, we need to do the same.
Small time, dem tell me make I visit different different country to help people.		In time, I was asked to make zone visits to other countries.
So dey give us wetin we need to fit bear the problem wey we dey face.		Hence, in many cases, he makes " the way out " by providing what we need so that we can endure trials successfully.
So if we no want make money and property chance God work for our life, make we dey follow wetin dey teach us. ( Matt.		Just as meditating on divine truth fortified Jesus to reject temptation, so applying Bible principles helps us to fight against materialistic desires.
The first thing be sey, make we like to dey think about the kind person wey be and how e take high pass us for everything. ( Isa.		First, we will develop greater modesty and reverence for by appreciatively reflecting on his vastly superior qualities and position.
The things wey dey Bible fit help person.		Think about the good effect that Bible teachings can have on a person.
The way answer our prayer, no be wetin we really dey find.		The answer was not what we personally found convenient.
The way e be that time, na so e still be today. - Better story about us for Central America.		That report is as true today as it was back then. - From our archives in Central America.
They choose men wey them de show good example make they handle the matter.		All these spiritually qualified men had Greek names.
This fight don affect everything for my life.		This ongoing battle has affected every aspect of my life.
This kind thing fit still happen to us if we dey read the book wey be for people wey no be Witness.		We can experience something similar when we read material written for the public.
This na because the thing wey person like, money or property, fit enter im head come dey control am sotey e go be like im god.		That is because the object of one 's desire, such as riches or luxuries, can become so controlling in life that it takes on the role of a powerful god.
This one go come give am the chance to be friend forever. ( Rom.		That, then, opens up the prospect of enjoying an everlasting relationship with.
This one go make us dey check wetin Bible talk before we choose wetin we go do.		Accordingly, we develop the habit of consulting God 's Word before making decisions.
Three of dem na example of people wey do wetin God like, and their life really make sense. ( Ps.		They thus became examples of righteousness, and they led truly successful lives.
Today, organization need people wey go support work.		The need for volunteers in 's organization is greater than ever.
True true, the way arrange everything wey e make, help us see sey we suppose dey praise, worship and hold am tight because e make heaven and earth well. - Ps.		Surely the mind - boggling order evident in the universe helps us to see that, who " skillfully made the heavens " and the earth, deserves our praise, loyalty, and worship. - Ps.
Two pioneer wey dey Amsterdam dey preach to one person wey dey waka pass		Two pioneers in Amsterdam share the Kingdom message with a passerby
We go gain well well if we allow correct us, and if we follow im and Jesus example when we dey correct other people. Mouth no go fit talk all the blessing wey we go get.		It would be difficult to enumerate all the blessings that result from accepting divine discipline and from imitating and Jesus when disciplining others.
Wetin Zacchaeus do to show sey e want enter God Kingdom?		How did Zacchaeus show his determination to gain God 's Kingdom?
Wetin dey God mind from beginning na for human being to stay for this earth forever. ( Gen. 1: 28; Ps.		s original purpose was for mankind to live forever here on earth.
Wetin happen make me remember wetin Jesus talk about ' better thing wey person dey keep for heaven. '		That burglary made me reflect on Jesus ' words about storing up ' treasures in heaven. '
Wetin make Peter vex like that? Na because they use wayo way come arrest Jesus and na for night.		No doubt, he was incensed at the injustice of Jesus ' nighttime arrest.
Wetin we go talk about for the next topic?		What will we consider in the following article?
When Jesus de talk with e apostles, e tell them many times say God go answer their prayer. - John 14: 13; 15: 7, 16; 16: 23.		During his talk with his apostles, Jesus repeatedly assured them that their prayers would be answered. - John 14: 13; 15: 7, 16; 16: 23.
When Jesus dey this earth, tax de make people support different side for politics.		Taxation was a hot political issue in Jesus ' time.
When elders dey give advice for matter wey concern wetin person suppose choose by imself, make dem do like apostle Paul.		Today, when giving counsel on matters involving personal choice, the elders should follow that pattern.
When we get problem, make we think about wetin go like make we do for the matter.		When faced with a problem, we do well to consider what 's will may be in the matter.
Which better thing fit come out if we get good character?		What are the benefits of maintaining fine conduct?
Which question dem we go talk about?		What questions will we now consider?
You fit even follow dem talk about wetin dey Galatians 5: 19 - 23.		You could also talk with them about the wise directions found at Galatians 5: 19 - 23.
You fit write any place come out for Bible wey fit help the person. You fit still write some of the better character wey the person wey don die get; or any better thing wey una do together.		You could simply quote a comforting scripture, recall some memorable characteristic or quality of the deceased, or share a happy memory that you cherish.
You go die for the place wey the king wey make you king dey stay. The king wey you make promise to but you no do am, the king wey you make agreement with but you no keep am. ' - Ezek.		Zedekiah ] will die in Babylon, in the place where the king who made him king lives, the one whose oath he despised and whose covenant he broke. " - Ezek.
You ready to stop to dey follow this kind people waka? What if e dey hard you to control yourself make you no drink too much?		If you struggle to be moderate in your use of alcoholic beverages, are you willing to steer clear of situations that might tempt you to overdrink?
My pikin, show sey you get sense and my mind go sweet, so that I go know wetin I go tell the person wey dey insult me. ' - Prov.		Be wise, my son, and make my heart rejoice, so that I can make a reply to him who taunts me. " - Prov.
We go fit enjoy many blessing because God dey forgive us.		Being forgiven of our sins opens the door to many other wonderful blessings.
Make we see three things wey go help us fit gain from all the better better things wey dey give us, whether na for Bible or for our different different book dem.		It will be helpful to consider three suggestions for benefiting from all portions of the Bible and the various types of spiritual food available to us.
As e be sey don give government chance to rule, e no good mek we fight dem.		Since allows human governments to rule, we do not oppose them.
For Jesus time, some people show sey dem no get faith.		When composing Psalm 13, King David four times likewise asked: " How long? "
Wetin be one of the blessing wey we go get if we use our freedom well?		What is one of the great blessings of free will?
Wetin people dey talk about sex matter?		What idea about sex is common in this world?
Saul name later change to apostle Paul.		You certainly recognize that Jewish man as the one who came to be known as the apostle Paul.
Wetin show sey people dey end their marriage anyhow?		How common is divorce?
E dey really make us happy to do good to our brothers and sisters.		[CONTENT_REMOVED]
We still know sey na that Kingdom go soon comot all the suffer suffer for this world.		And we know that this Kingdom will soon bring a permanent end to all suffering.
Ps. 128: 1 - 6 ) For example, Deuteronomy 28: 4 talk sey: " Your children, wetin you plant, your animal pikin, your small small cow and sheep, all of dem go get blessing. "		For example, Deuteronomy 28: 4 states: " Blessed will be your children and the fruit of your ground and the offspring of your livestock, your young cattle and sheep. "
E no easy for Paul to do wetin good because of sin wey dey im body. E first do bad things but e later repent. And e believe sey don forgive am because of Jesus Christ.		Yes, despite his struggle with sin and his past wrongdoing - for which he had repented - Paul was confident in God 's forgiveness through Jesus.
Some dey serve as pioneer for their congregation, and some dey pack go where dem need more people to preach.		Some of them serve within their local territories; others move to where the need is greater.
Wetin Go Comot When God Kingdom Come?		What Will Go When God 's Kingdom Comes?
Ah, our mind really come down! "		What comfort! "
And dem still dey worry sey sickness wey dey come with old age dey front. E be like sey na David beg sey: ' No trowey me when I don old; no leave me when I no get power again. ' - Ps.		Most likely it was David who pleaded with: " Do not cast me off in my old age; do not abandon me when my strength fails. " - Ps.
Anybody wey no gree respect the Son no dey respect the Father wey send am. ' - Read Psalm 2: 11, 12.		Whoever does not honor the Son does not honor the Father who sent him. " - Read Psalm 2: 11, 12.
Apart from money and other better things wey you fit contribute, other way still dey wey we fit use support work.		In addition to gifts of money and valuable personal property, there are other ways to benefit Kingdom service worldwide.
As time dey go, language dey change.		Over time, languages tend to change.
As we dey serve with our brothers and sisters, we get the chance to talk better word wey go make dem happy and strong.		As we serve alongside our brothers and sisters, we likely have opportunities to say something encouraging.
At least, this one show sey King James Version gree sey God name dey the part wey people dey call New Testament.		In that sense, the King James Version acknowledged the rightful place of God 's name in the so - called New Testament.
Because King Zedekiah use name swear, expect am to keep the promise. ( 2 Chron.		King Zedekiah owed it to to live up to the oath that he had sworn in God 's name.
Because of that one, two of dem come dey talk about other things wey happen as Bible talk sey e go happen.		As a result, they had many discussions about how prophecies were fulfilled.
Because we get many things to do for life, we fit comot mind for the matter wey serious.		In the rush of life, it is easy to lose sight of what is important.
Belle still sweet Ann because e help Paula hold tight.		Ann too is happy, for she has been like a spiritual mother to Paula.
Bible sey make we no ' join this world, ' na im make this brothers and sisters wey go stay Ukraine and Russia, no put hand for war or politics. Instead, dem continue to use all their mind and power ' preach the good news ' wey dey Bible. - John 15: 19; Acts 8: 4.		In both countries, they remain politically neutral, being " no part of the world, " and continue zealously " declaring the good news of the word. " - John 15: 19; Acts 8: 4.
Bible sey make we no be like river wey breeze dey blow up and down.		According to the Bible, we should not be unsteady, unable to decide.
But how God take show favor to people?		But how did God manifest this undeserved kindness?
Dem first put am for prison for three months because e no gree fight war. Im brother wey be Dennis na special pioneer for Hemsworth.		Having just served a three - month prison sentence as a conscientious objector, he joined his brother Dennis, a special pioneer, in Hemsworth.
Dem help me know sey really love me. I thank well well. "		They have truly made me feel 's loving arms around me. "
Dem need to know sey we ready to help dem.		They need to see that we care about them.
E fit be sey e no tey wey God use apostle Paul write about faith finish, na im James write the book of James.		The letter of James was likely written shortly after the apostle Paul wrote his inspired description of faith.
E good to remember sey this world and the things wey dey inside, no dey agree with wetin want and how e dey think. ( Jas.		It is important to remember that this world and all its components are opposed to 's interests and thinking.
E pain me sey because I dey carry body up, I no fit know wetin better pass. Na im make other people mistake no gree comot for my mind. " - 1 Cor.		I regret that I allowed pride to blind me to the more important things and cause me to obsess over other people 's faults. " - 1 Cor.
Elders dey do everything wey dem fit do to help person wey do bad thing ( Check paragraph 17 )		Elders endeavor to give spiritual help to one who has taken a false step ( See paragraph 17 )
For 2007, Governing Body come form Theocratic Schools Department wey go dey direct all the school for Bethel. For some years, na me be overseer.		In 2007 the Governing Body placed the schools taught at Bethel under the new Theocratic Schools Department, and for some years I was privileged to be the overseer.
For another of Jesus prayer, e still call ' Holy Father. '		In another prayer, Jesus addressed as " Holy Father. "
For this area, we know say no be everybody for congregation fit travel go far place for preaching.		Understandably, not everyone in the congregations of this area is able to travel long distances.
For this topic, we go talk about Joseph wey be Abraham great grandpikin and wetin im brothers do am.		In this article, we will consider Abraham 's great - grandson Joseph and his experience with his brothers.
From the time wey I baptize come reach now, when I remember the many wise people wey don help me serve well, I dey thank am.		Looking back on my life from before I got baptized in that watering trough until now, I thank for the wise ones who assisted me in the way of the truth.
Governing Body today dey encourage Bethelites, people like special pioneer, missionary, and even all of us.		Today, the Governing Body of 's gives encouragement to Bethel family members, to special full - time field workers, and indeed, to the entire international brotherhood of true Christians.
How Satan take carry Jesus go tempt for temple?		Did Satan physically take Jesus to the temple to tempt him?
How we fit dey do well for God work and still dey help our Bible student dey do well?		How can we ourselves make spiritual progress and at the same time help our Bible students to do so?
I come tell am sey, " Jesus talk sey dem GO preach the good news about God Kingdom for the whole world.		I replied, " Jesus said that the good news of the Kingdom WILL be preached in all the nations, and no one can stop it. "
I happy to study Bible with this kind people. Dem ready to listen and dem get better mind. That time, publishers no too dey the area.		It was a pleasure to study the Scriptures with the humble and hospitable people in that unassigned territory.
I happy well well when e come because e just be like sey don answer my prayer.		It seemed that this might be a hint from!
I still fill another one for 1955 for one convention wey we do for Yankee Stadium wey dey New York City.		I did so again in 1955 at a convention in Yankee Stadium, New York City.
I want tell dem about before, but I no fit. So after sometime, I come talk sey I go learn their language.		I wanted to tell them about, so after a while I made plans to learn their language.
If na we get that kind study, e good make we do the study when the papa and mama dey house.		The Witness needs to bear in mind, though, that in providing spiritual help, he or she does not become the children 's parent.
If person wey do bad want make pity for am, wetin e go do?		A Christian may need to give up what in order to continue to receive divine mercy?
If we do am like this, e go make the message wey dey Bible, touch the person mind. - Read Luke 24: 32.		Doing so can go a long way in helping the message of God 's Word to reach the mind and heart of our listeners. - Read Luke 24: 32.
Instead, Zechariah put am for Joshua head, wey be High Priest. Wetin e do fit surprise the people wey see am.		Observers must have been intrigued when he placed the crown on High Priest Joshua.
Instead, dem dey wait for the time wey this wicked world go end when " day come. "		Rather, they await the end of this wicked system of things during " 's day. "
Jehoshaphat join Ahaziah build ship. But dem no fit use the ship because e sink for water. - 2 Chron.		Jehoshaphat and Ahaziah built ships together, which ended up being wrecked, not accomplishing the purpose for which they were built. - 2 Chron.
Jesus tell us sey mek we ' hear wetin the spirit dey tell different different congregation. '		In fact, he told us that we should " hear what the spirit says to the congregations. "
Joshua still talk sey meeting for im papa and mama language no come dey sweet am again.		Within a few years, the shift was complete.
Make all of us see am as our work to join hand make the one mind for congregation no spoil.		Each of us should accept it as his or her personal responsibility to contribute to maintaining the oneness in the congregation.
Make dem for judge the matter well, Paul come later talk sey e want make dem carry the matter go meet Caesar.		In time, Paul was able to defend and proclaim his faith before the next governor, Porcius Festus, as well as before King Herod Agrippa.
Make we no let am happen.		How could that happen?
Make we talk about one time wey Adam use im freedom well.		Consider an example of how Adam used his free will in an appropriate way.
Me and my husband no fit pioneer for some years because we need to take care of our family.		For a number of years, Walter and I were not in a position to pioneer. We had to care for a family.
Na company servant dem dey call person wey dey direct the things wey dey happen for congregation.		Father was the company servant, the term then used for the one taking the lead in a congregation.
Na different different people dey the congregation for apostle dem time. Some na Jew, Greek, Rome people and people wey come from other country.		The first - century Christian congregation was made up of Jews, Greeks, Romans, and people of other nationalities.
Na from Bible we dey learn many many things wey dey help us for life.		It provides reliable instruction and helps us to find comfort and hope.
Na im mek e good mek we ready ourself now, sey we no go join for this matter wey dey mek people hate each other today!		That is why it is important for us to prepare now to stay neutral in this divided world!
Na true?		Do you feel that way?
Na true sey we no dey too get time because of work for congregation or other work, but e good make all of us dey arrange time for personal study and family worship.		Although we may be very busy with theocratic and secular responsibilities, we all need to make time for personal study and family worship.
Na when you follow the things wey Bible talk.		Applying Scriptural principles.
No still forget sey na God get Bible and the advice wey dey inside go make you wise. As you dey think well about the things wey you dey read for Bible, dem go make you strong.		Do not overlook the fact that God 's Word is helpful and refreshing because it contains the Creator 's own words of wisdom.
Nobody fit talk sey if woman dey use copper or hormone IUD, man sperm no go ever fit meet the woman egg for pikin to form.		Hence, no one can say with certainty that IUDs that include copper or a hormone never allow for the fertilization of an egg.
One sister wey e name na Elena don pioneer pass 25 years. E talk say: " Preaching no easy for me.		Elena, a pioneer for over 25 years, speaks for many of us when she says: " I find the preaching work difficult.
Paul still warn those Christian about wetin fit make the promise no reach their hand.		Paul also alerted fellow Christians about dangers that could deprive them of the prize.
Paul talk sey make we no fear to talk to for prayer, ' so that e fit favor us and show us favor wey go help us when we need help. '		Paul encouraged us to approach freely in prayer, " so that we may receive mercy and find undeserved kindness to help us at the right time. "
Paul talk sey people " go like money. "		Paul wrote that people would be " lovers of money. "
People no go dey talk to dem again and dem no go fit preach for the temple or synagogue again.		They would be made social outcasts and barred from witnessing in the temple or in synagogues.
Peter no even gree sey e know Jesus.		Peter repeatedly denied even knowing Jesus.
SONG: 100, 87		SONGS: 100, 87
See as e make sense!		What happy times!
So e come dey think, ' If hell na place wey fire dey, and na there wicked people dey go, why Jesus go there? '		So she wondered, ' If hell is a fiery place where the wicked are tormented, why did Jesus go there? '
Some wey dey try talk about am, dey talk sey God Kingdom na something wey dey person mind.		If they do speak about the Kingdom, many refer to it as a feeling or a condition in the heart of a Christian.
Sometimes, I dey think about the better things wey we don do for Ireland. I don see sey hand dey the work!		Looking back on our lives, I can see how has guided and blessed the work in Ireland!
That time, na im dey direct the work wey Witness dey do. E tell me sey one of the brother wey dey work for im office dey go Kingdom Ministry School.		He explained that one of the brothers working in his office was going to attend the Kingdom Ministry School for a month, after which he would work in the Service Department.
The way moon dey shine on top the river come make am be like road wey dem use silver make.		The moon shining on the calm seas made a silvery highway stretching to the horizon.
WHEN King Saul start to rule for Israel, e no overdo and people respect am.		KING SAUL of ancient Israel began his reign as a modest and respected man.
We dey always do family study.		Our daughters really wanted to do that.
We go make people dey follow Jesus, we go baptize dem and we go teach dem. But wetin be the first thing wey Jesus want make we do?		We must make disciples, baptize them, and teach them, but what is the first thing we need to do?
We see sey this one na true when God form congregation for apostle dem time.		This fact was amply demonstrated when God formed the Christian congregation.
We still dey hide preach to other people for the island and some of dem come later be Witness.		We also discreetly preached to other prisoners, some of whom later became 's.
Wetin Psalm 118: 22 talk about?		Psalm 118: 22 pointed to what outstanding event?
Wetin go help us near pass before?		What will help you to draw closer to?
Wetin help dem? Dem pray to and trust am sey e go help dem.		How did those years of service affect them?
Wetin we learn from this law?		Does not the principle reflected in that particular law move us to action?
When we want choose friend.		Associations.
Which people example help us know sey even with the sin wey dey our body, we fit use our freedom do wetin want?		What examples prove that it is possible for imperfect humans to use their free will in a way that honors God?
Who fit dey among the main people wey we go invite come our house?		Who should be among our primary guests?
Why Paul tell Christian make dem no forget sey na one?		Why did Paul remind Christians that God is " one "?
Why we fit talk sey God arrange Israel people well?		Why can we say that the Israelites were well - organized?
You go still dey carry wetin the brother do for mind or dey think about how e don take serve all this years?		Will you put forth the effort to see the bigger picture, perhaps reflecting on the brother 's many years of faithful service?
You remember wetin happen to the prophet wey we talk about for paragraph two? vex for am and e die because e forget where e suppose do reach.		A single presumptuous act cost the unnamed prophet from Judah his life and his good standing with God.
paragraph 17 ) Go check page 662 for 's - Proclaimers of God 's Kingdom book, and the box " He Died for God 's Honor " wey dey page 150 inside God 's Kingdom Rules!		paragraph 17 ) See the book 's - Proclaimers of God 's Kingdom, page 662, and the box " He Died for God 's Honor " in chapter 14 of the book God 's Kingdom Rules!
wetin elders dey do to help person wey sin?		the role of the elders in helping a person recover from a serious sin?
Simon, John pikin, you love me pass this things? ' - JOHN 21: 15.		Simon son of John, do you love me more than these? " - JOHN 21: 15.
When we take time think about the problem wey sin fit put us, we go fit get strong heart to " hate bad thing. "		By reflecting on the bad consequences of sin, we can strengthen our heart to " hate what is bad. "
When Job get money, e no carry shoulder up or think sey other people no reach am.		Clearly, Job had not allowed his earlier prestige and wealth to warp his view of himself or others.
Wetin Jephthah people do am?		What did Jephthah 's own people do to him?
Wetin Bible sey make husband and wife dey do?		What does the Bible require of husbands and wives?
God word no be wetin person go take dey make money.		The Word of God should not be commercialized.
After David sin, wetin e no fit do?		After he sinned, what could David not do?
The way brothers for Corinth use their freedom bring wahala.		How did freedom of choice become an issue in Corinth?
Bible Still Dey Change Your Life?		Is the Bible Still Changing Your Life?
Beg to give you sense and help you fit control yourself when this kind thing happen.		Should you ever face such a test, ask to give you the wisdom and self - control to resist.
Bible talk about Ahithophel wey be King David friend.		In David 's day, Ahithophel proved that his friendship with the king was a fraud.
E no ever talk sey na cause im problem.		He never blamed for his situation.
And e still dey make person do good things for other people. - w17.10, p.		But it reflects high principles, such as unselfish actions for the good of others. - w17.10, p.
And this one fit make some of dem talk sey: " We want follow you because we don hear sey God dey with una. " - Zech.		If we conduct ourselves in a godly way, others will observe us, and some may even say: " We want to go with you, for we have heard that God is with you people. " - Zech.
Arthur Claus write sey: " The way many people take gree sey make the magazine dey reach their hand every month, surprise everybody for congregation. "		Arthur Claus wrote: " The entire congregation was greatly surprised at the large number of subscriptions that were obtained. "
As Peter read am, tears come dey comot from im eye. E come ask Don sey: ' I be one of this sheep? '		At that, with tears in his eyes, Peter asked: " Am I one of these sheep? "
As we dey use all this things wey don give us, e go make us sabi more more how e dey do things.		By making diligent use of 's provisions for spiritual feeding, we will progressively become more familiar with his ways.
Because, e show sey no go allow wicked people spoil the better way, wey dem take dey worship am.		However, the vision also reminded the Jews of their responsibility to maintain the purity of their worship.
Because of this one, Michael come start to dey study Bible with Witness people.		To get the facts, Michael accepted a Bible study.
Brothers and sisters for congregation still help me well well.		And the support of my spiritual brothers and sisters has brought me much comfort.
But, like brothers and sisters for Ephesus that time, servant fit stop to show love.		Still, as conditions in the first - century congregation in Ephesus illustrate, true Christians today could become complacent and allow their love to falter.
But, make we get am for mind sey, if we try our best, go help us.		We can be sure that we can succeed with 's help!
But I no know whether na the correct thing I dey do.		I did not know whether I was doing the right thing.
But Paul talk sey dem ' don die leave sin ' even when dem still dey alive dey serve God. E use wetin happen to Jesus take explain wetin e mean.		But Paul could speak of them while they were still alive and serving God on earth as having " died with reference to sin. "
But as Christian, we must get ' the mind sey other people better pass ' us. This one go make am easy for us to forgive dem.		As Christians, however, we must humbly " consider others superior " to us, as worthy of our forgiveness.
But make we first talk about the power wey get to make us strong. We go use Isaiah 40: 26 - 31 take talk am.		But first, let us focus on 's ability to strengthen us, as shown at Isaiah 40: 26 - 31.
But wait, any need to dey worry ourself with all this kind question?		But, frankly, is there any real need to ponder those issues now?
But when Gehazi reach there, e no fit bring the pikin come life.		Gehazi was not able to bring the dead boy back to life.
Dem go talk sey: ' [ ] go teach us im way, and we go waka for im road. '		They would say: " [ ] will instruct us about his ways, and we will walk in his paths. "
E come dey do me somehow for body, and I no come dey answer am well again.		As my irritation grew, I started being curt with her.
E come dey hungry me to tell people the truth wey I don learn.		I wanted to share the truth with others.
E come tell im pikin wetin e don promise.		He then told her that he had made a promise to that would forever change her life.
E fit be say people do us partial, or na we de do people sometimes.		We could be victims, or we ourselves might hold some prejudices.
E fit be sey Meroz na one of the place wey no gree support the war wey Israel people fight with Sisera army, even though dem hear sey Israel need 10,000 men.		If it lay on Sisera 's escape route, did its citizens have a chance to detain him but fail to seize the opportunity? How could they not have heard of 's call for volunteers?
E go still good if the elders check your ' no blood card ' to see if anything dey wey you need to change.		It would be good if the elders also verified that your medical directive card is updated.
E good make we dey use ' sense ' when we dey preach to refugee people. ( Matt. 10: 16; Prov.		Those who preach to refugees need to be " cautious " and even " shrewd. "
E no want continue to be secret disciple.		He would be a secret disciple no more.
Even with this one, Satan use style talk for garden of Eden sey God no get right to give human being law.		In spite of this, in the garden of Eden, Satan slyly questioned God 's right to set standards for humans.
Farm truck wey I use when I just come Bethel		As a new Bethelite, with a farm truck
For example, Bible talk sey Jesus ' come from David pikin for flesh, ' and Paul take Jew people as im ' family people for flesh. ' - Rom.		Jesus was " from the offspring of David according to the flesh, " and Paul saw the Jews as " relatives according to the flesh. " - Rom.
For olden days, people value ' Acts of Paul and Thecla ' well well. Na im make 80 of this book dey for Greek language, and other language still get this book.		The Acts of Paul and Thecla was highly regarded in early centuries, as confirmed by the fact that 80 Greek manuscripts of it exist, as well as versions in other languages.
How we go take show sey we dey pity for people and we ready to help dem?		In what ways can we display compassion and kindness?
I dey 12 years that time.		I was 12 years old.
I ready to learn the language wey dem dey speak?		Am I willing to learn the language of the country?
If dem no obey am, na dem go take their hand choose wetin good. and wetin no good. "		If they disobey, they will be left to decide for themselves what is good. and what is not good. "
If you study this book finish, e go help you see how you go fit follow wetin Bible talk for your life.		Completing your study of that book will help you to see how to apply Bible principles in your life.
Jesus talk sey: ' No fear people. Dem fit kill person but dem no fit do pass that one. '		Jesus said: " Do not fear those who kill the body and after this are not able to do anything more. "
Make we beg sey: ' Give me better sense and help me know something. ' - Ps.		Yes, we can echo the sentiment of the psalmist who told God: " Teach me good sense and knowledge. " - Ps.
Make we see how we fit use the laws and wetin fit guide us for Bible train our conscience.		Let us consider how 's laws and principles can help us to train our conscience.
Make we see three way.		Note three ways to do so.
Me and my wife like Bethel life.		Gloria and I love Bethel life.
Me and my wife really thank well well for the better better things wey e dey give us. We dey advice other people sey make dem do wetin go make bless dem. - Mal.		Nora and I are very grateful to for all his kind provisions, and we encourage others to test out. - Mal.
My mind dey always come down when I dey with dem and e dey be like sey I don already dey paradise. "		When I am among them I feel at home with my family, in a spiritual paradise. "
Na because Abimelech and Peter let the sin wey dey their body control dem, na im make e be like sey dem overdo?		Were the seemingly presumptuous actions of Abimelech and Peter motivated by sinful desires?
Na im make many many people today believe sey na send Jesus. Our Memorial dey show sey all of us get one mind.		has indeed answered that prayer of his dear Son, and now millions believe that sent his Son.
Na that time the top of the water go dey shake.		On such occasions, the rush of water would certainly have disturbed the pool 's surface.
Na the printing machine wey come dey and the strong mind wey people wey translate Bible get, give correct Christians hope ( Check paragraph 12, 13 )		Innovations in printing and courageous Bible translators helped loosen Babylon 's grip ( See paragraphs 12, 13 )
Na true sey hate sin, but im correction still dey show sey e love the person wey sin.		While 's discipline can reflect his hatred of sin, it can also show his concern for the person who sinned.
Na true sey if Bible student begin live better life so that God go happy, e go draw dem near body, come mold dem to better thing wey fine well well.		Yes, when Bible students begin to clean up their lives to please God, he will draw close to them and mold them into truly desirable vessels.
No Let People Mistake Make You Stop to Serve, June		Marriage - Its Origin and Purpose, Aug.
No be only for mouth we go remember Governing Body. E still good make we dey do wetin dem talk.		Of course, remembering the Governing Body involves not just words but also cooperation with its direction.
No matter how things be for us, make we continue to dey learn things wey go help us serve well.		Whatever our personal circumstances, though, we should be determined to feed our heart with solid spiritual food.
Noah na better papa wey help im family because e follow wetin God talk.		Noah also succeeded as a family man - and for basically the same reason; he trusted in God 's wisdom.
One brother for Ghana give one young man our book. But for some weeks, anytime the brother go check am, e go dey hide.		A brother in Ghana placed literature with a young man who thereafter hid from him for weeks.
One day, our landlord drink come house. E come dey talk sey we dey cause trouble for the area, and e sey e go kill us.		One day our landlord came home drunk, threatening to kill us and claiming that we were disturbing the neighborhood.
Pray make help you, and do wetin e want make you do.		Seek 's guidance, and apply his divine wisdom.
Sometimes, the way we understand some things wey dey Bible, fit change.		From time to time, our understanding of a Bible prophecy or some Scriptural passage may be adjusted.
South Africa na one example. Before for South Africa, the government people separate where oyibo people dey stay from where black people dey stay.		For example, in South Africa most still live in areas that were set apart for their race - be it affluent suburbs, black townships, or areas where people of mixed race once had to live.
Stephanie talk sey: " If you dey where people dey listen to your preaching and ready to study with you every day, body go just dey sweet you.		Preaching in a territory where you meet individuals who are so eager to learn the truth that they want to study the Bible with you every day is such a joy, " says Stephanie.
Tell All the Things Wey Dey Worry You, Dec.		The Spirit Bears Witness With Our Spirit, Jan.
Tell am sey wetin dey make apple dey always be apple dey inside the seed. But person no fit know how to make apple, the way person take dey know how to make akara.		You could discuss that the recipe was " written " in the seed but in a language far more complex than the words in a recipe book.
The Law still help dem make dem no marry people wey no dey serve.		It helped to protect the Israelites spiritually by prohibiting marriage to false worshippers.
The main reason wey make us dey pity people and help dem na because we want be like.		Knowing that compassion is good for you should not be your main reason for wanting to cultivate it.
The story na about one Jew wey thief - people beat - am for road when e de travel. Other Jew people pass, but they no help this their country - man.		In answer, Jesus gave an illustration of a Samaritan who kindly cared for a traveler - a Jew - who had been beaten by thieves.
The truth be sey we fit follow dey help our brothers and sisters get better character. ( 1 Thess.		In fact, we can work along with our Potter by supporting our brothers and sisters as they strive to make spiritual advancement.
This one help am to fit bear suffer, no matter how the suffer strong reach. ( 1 Thess.		That helped him to endure severe opposition.
This one mean sey the person fit even dey there till e die.		This might mean spending the rest of his life there.
This part of the vision dey show sey no go allow anybody wey dey do wicked things remain for congregation.		This part of the vision highlights that will not tolerate wickedness of any kind among his people.
To make people understand the matter well, James come sey: ' True true, as body wey no get spirit don die, na so e still be, faith wey no dey show for wetin we dey do, don die. ' - Jas.		Then to drive home the point that faith must be shown by works, James adds: " Just as the body without spirit is dead, so also faith without works is dead. " - Jas.
We don make our light shine pass as we think say e fit even shine!		We are letting our light shine to an extent that could not have been imagined previously.
We fit read something for our book dem wey go fit help us get the character wey God like.		Some have found it practical to collect and occasionally review certain scriptures and Watchtower or Awake!
We happy no be small, because we know sey the only way young people fit use their life well, na to use am serve.		We were extremely happy, since there is no better way for young people to use their lives.
We still dey enjoy to talk about Bible and to dey talk about, the God wey we love!		After that, we could enjoy spending time together talking about our dear God, and his Word!
Wetin Bible talk wey fit help am?		What principles apply?
Wetin David no fit do: David no fit clean wetin e don do.		What David could not do: David could not undo what he had done.
Wetin go help children to dey obey their papa and mama?		What will help young ones to be obedient to their parents?
Wetin go help you continue to do well so that you no go tire to wait?		How can you progress spiritually without growing weary?
Wetin we fit learn from people wey don endure?		What can we learn from those who have endured?
Wetin we learn from Zechariah sixth vision?		What can we learn from Zechariah 's sixth vision?
Wetin you go do to fit dey do well as you dey serve?		What can you do to make spiritual progress?
When Baasha come fight am, wetin make Asa no trust? Why e trust imself and Ben - hadad?		In dealing with Baasha, what led Asa to rely on humans - Ben - hadad and himself - instead of?
When people wey get problem for their marriage come meet elders, make elders ask dem whether dem don read the brochure wey be You Fit Mek Your Famili Hapi and watch the video What Is True Love?		When individuals approach congregation elders for advice about marital problems, the elders do well to ask whether the couple have recently watched the video What Is True Love?
When you dey with brothers and sisters, try ask them how their good heart and better character don affect their family people, their neighbor, workmate, and schoolmate.		When you are in conversation with other, why not draw them out on how their kindness and good conduct have affected relatives, neighbors, workmates, or schoolmates?
Which three question we go answer for this topic?		What questions will we consider in this article?
Why some papa and mama dey tell their pikin to wait if e want baptize?		Why have some parents wanted their child to postpone baptism?
Why the freedom wey Jesus talk about fit make us " really dey free "?		Why can the freedom that Jesus promised make us " truly free "?
Your pikin fit tell you sey e need something. No be bad thing to tell am no sometimes.		Do not be afraid to say no to your children 's requests if need be!
paragraph 12 ) Bible no talk how many cherub God send come do this work for Eden.		paragraph 12 ) The Bible does not say how many cherubs were assigned to this task.
Our God, we dey thank you and praise your better name. " - 1 CHRON.		O our God, we thank you and praise your beautiful name. " - 1 CHRON.
God come talk sey: " E no good make only the man continue to dey stay.		God said: ' It is not good for the man to continue to be alone.
Make we show God and our neighbor sey we love dem. One way we fit do this one na to dey ' preach this good news about God Kingdom. ' ( Matt.		For example, when we walk in love for God and neighbor, we will be moved to share the " good news of the Kingdom " with them.
But no be only that one.		But there is more.
E fit be say Satan promise them say, if this women born for them, they go fit control people for this earth.		Perhaps Satan tempted the disloyal angels not only with the opportunity for immoral sex but also with the promise of seizing power over mankind.
Wetin be the bad character wey Paul talk about for Colossians 3: 5 - 9?		According to Colossians 3: 5 - 9, what practices belong to the old personality?
Isa.		No one can stand in 's way.
Na this one make people for the whole world love, respect and dey praise the elders for congregation.		You can thus understand why elders in congregations around the globe earn their fellow ' love, respect, and honor.
Every year, this preaching work dey help us fit teach many many people the truth wey dey Bible. Many of dem dey baptize and we dey form plenty congregation.		As a result of this activity, each year millions of Bible studies are conducted, thousands of disciples are baptized, and hundreds of new congregations are formed.
Make you no hide how you dey feel so that you go fit understand and handle the problem well.		Frank and honest communication can do much to help you to understand and deal with your concerns.
[CONTENT_REMOVED]		See also the box " He Always Leaves Feeling Better. " )
For Noah time, which kind thing people take as normal thing?		In many cultures, what sexual practices became a way of life?
Wetin we go talk about for this topic and the next one?		What will we consider in this article and the next?
Wetin we must know about when e ask us to do something?		What is a mark of 's requirements?
Which people we carry for mind write some of our book dem?		What publications do we receive for specific groups of people?
E study Bible well, and e no fear to tell people sey some things wey dem believe no correct. For example, people believe Trinity and and dem believe sey if person die, im soul no dey die.		He was an outstanding student of the Bible, and he fearlessly exposed as false such doctrines as the Trinity and the immortality of the soul.
How Witness people take dey look Bible?		How do 's feel about the Bible?
But dem fit use IUD?		What about the use of an IUD?
How Christians for apostle time take show sey to dey use their time meet together dey good for dem?		How do we know that meetings were very important to Christians in the first century?
How the four king wey we talk about take serve?		What do the four kings we considered have in common?
Cor. 15: 6 ) So e be like sey na plenty people Jesus tell to go make other people im disciple.		Jesus thus revealed that baptism would be a requirement for those who accept the yoke of Christian discipleship.
Dem go join Jesus ' cure people. ' Dem go show us wetin we go do to fit comot from sin and we no go dey sick, die or do bad thing. - Read Revelation 22: 1, 2, 17.		They will share with Jesus in " the healing of the nations, " directing obedient humans to the means to become free from the burden of sin and death and raising them to perfection. - Read Revelation 22: 1, 2, 17.
Think am: no be just plenty and no be surplus but ' over surplus '!		Imagine that - not just abundantly and not superabundantly but " more than superabundantly "!
But we still need to comot hand from anything wey no go make us continue to be tight friend. - Titus 2: 11, 12.		At the same time, we work to reject things that will hinder our spiritual growth. - Titus 2: 11, 12.
Even with that one, the Messiah no come from Reuben or Joseph family.		Still, the Messianic line came down through neither Reuben nor Joseph.
So if you plan your life well, go happy. - Prov.		is glorified when his people make wise choices in life. - Prov.
APOSTLE PAUL write letter give the brothers and sisters wey dey Colossae. E write am when e dey prison for Rome around 60 - 61 C.E.		THE apostle Paul wrote his letter to Christians in Colossae evidently at the end of his first confinement in Rome, or about 60 - 61 C.E.
After the brother don go plenty times, one day e come see the young man. But the young man no want follow am talk.		After repeated visits, the Witness finally contacted him, but the young person tried to end the conversation.
And dem think sey all their student believe sey God no dey. "		And they take it for granted that the students believe in evolution. "
And e be like sey wetin we talk agree with wetin dey Hebrews 12: 16.		That seemed to agree with what we read at Hebrews 12: 16.
And that na the first thing wey make me leave everything, so that I go fit do God own.		And that is what led to my first experience in leaving things behind to pursue spiritual goals.
And when e reach house, e call all im friend and im neighbor, tell dem sey, " Make una follow me happy because I don see my sheep wey lost. " '		And when he gets home, he calls his friends and his neighbors together, saying to them, ' Rejoice with me, for I have found my sheep that was lost. ' "
Apart from that one, e still know sey ' things go hard ' well well for im disciple dem wey go dey live for ' last days. '		More than that, he knew of the difficult conditions facing his disciples who centuries later would live during " the last days, " characterized by " critical times hard to deal with. "
Apostle Paul put eye down so that e fit preach to people anywhere wey e see dem. That na one way wey Paul take show sey e like to preach well well.		One way that Paul demonstrated appreciation for the ministry was by being alert to opportunities to speak to others.
Apostle Paul wey write this book talk about dem and other people wey ' dem talk better things about because of their faith. '		The inspired writer referred to them and many others who " received a favorable witness because of their faith. "
As e come be like that, wetin make Moses come dey tell dem again sey their God na ' one '?		That being so, why did Moses call to their attention that their God is " one "?
As people wey go rule with Jesus for heaven, dem ' dey follow am no matter where e go. ' ( Rev.		As anointed Christians, the members of that slave " keep following the Lamb no matter where he goes. "
As we dey read about am for the book of Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, and dey think about wetin we read, e go make us know Jesus well well.		By reading and meditating on the Bible books of Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, we expose our mind to Christ 's mind.
As we dey serve dey go, we go know where we suppose do reach. ( Prov.		The longer we walk with, the deeper our modesty should become.
Because to do the correct thing dey character.		Because is the greatest example of justice and righteousness.
But later, Ahithophel take pepper rub David eye because of wetin e want gain.		Ahithophel turned traitor when he felt that he would gain an advantage.
But why e good to choose well?		But why do we need to make wise decisions?
But why e no good to think like that? - Jas.		Why is this deceptive reasoning? - Jas.
Dem no want leave the work because dem like am well well.		Some fear losing a position they cherish.
E dey sweet me for mind anytime I dey follow brothers and sisters talk.		I feel an inward joy when talking with God 's people.
E fit be.		It is possible.
E get some congregation for Asia Minor wey need strong correction. But you know how Jesus take correct dem?		He had some firm counsel to give to certain congregations in Asia Minor, but notice how he went about it.
E put all im body for work and e no dey use people wey be missionary play at all.		He was a tireless worker for the truth and had tremendous appreciation for the missionaries around the world.
E use im spirit take make Peter write sey: ' So, una wey I love well well, as e be sey una don know this thing, make una look well so that una no go join do the mistake wey people wey no get law dey do, come fall comot from where una stand.		He inspired Peter to write: " You, therefore, beloved ones, having this advance knowledge, be on your guard so that you may not be led astray with them by the error of the lawless people and fall from your own steadfastness.
Even though sey all this question dey Paul mind, im faith still strong. E no stop to happy.		Even if these questions weighed heavily on Paul 's mind, he did not let them erode his faith and joy.
Federico talk sey: ' E no tey after Antonio come our congregation wey we come be friend.		Federico relates: " When Antonio moved to our congregation, we soon became friends.
Find out how dem see wetin dem do, wetin dey their mind, and how dem behave.		How does the Bible describe their feelings, their attitude, and their conduct?
For 1960, we come dey stay Puerto Rico branch, wey dey two story building for Santurce, San Juan.		In 1960 we were asked to serve at the Puerto Rico branch, which was located in a small two - story house in Santurce, San Juan.
For 33 C.E., after resurrect Jesus, e appear to more than 500 people wey gather together.		In 33 C.E., the resurrected Jesus appeared to a crowd of more than 500 men, women, and possibly even children.
For July 1891, e come go Ireland.		His first tour started with Ireland, in July 1891.
For example, Bible talk for Hebrew part sey: ' The plan of person wey serious for wetin e dey do dey succeed '; and ' anything wey you fit do now, do am with all your power. '		For example, in the Hebrew Scriptures, we read: " The plans of the diligent surely lead to success "; and " whatever your hand finds to do, do with all your might. "
For example, see wetin dem tell us about our Bible student.		For example, consider the suggestions we have been given regarding our Bible students.
For example, we de help people know about the fine - fine character wey get, and the better life wey e don promise us. This one go make people know say Satan de lie about God.		For instance, by proclaiming the truth about 's wonderful qualities and his unchangeable purpose for mankind, we defend God 's name against Satan 's lies and slander.
For many years now, we don dey show people from Bible sey na since 1914 " Christ dey around, " as King.		s have long established Scripturally that since 1914 we have been living during Jesus ' promised " presence. "
Give example of how Papa and mama go fit show sey dem get strong mind?		What are some instances when Christian parents need courage?
Hannah na better example of person wey serve. But Hannah no fit born pikin.		Hannah, a faithful servant of old, dearly wanted a son but had been unable to bear children.
Help people learn about.		Help people spiritually.
How people wey dey support take dey choose wetin dem want do?		How do supporters of God 's sovereignty make personal decisions?
How prayer fit help you ' throw the load wey dey heavy you give '?		How can you " throw your burden on " by means of prayer?
How we go take help new ones sabi preach to people?		How can we help new ones to converse with householders and others?
I no believe wetin Felisa dey talk.		I did not agree with what she was saying.
I no meet my papa as young man.		I never knew a young father.
I no understand wetin I dey do.		For I do not understand what I am doing.
If day break, we dey chop wetin we see. We dey pray to and we trust am. Sometimes, na only mango wey grow for road we dey see chop for a whole day. ' - Phil.		We survived day by day, praying to and trusting in him, sometimes eating only mangoes that were growing along the way. " - Phil.
Make una stand well for inside. '		Stand firm in it. "
Make we get time to dey read and study Bible, and make we try no miss am.		In fact, we ourselves need to have good Bible study habits.
Make we make sure sey the kind cloth wey we dey wear na the one wey no go make people vex.		We should take seriously our responsibility to avoid clothes that may offend others.
Many times, na mat wey dem put on top wood I dey sleep.		My bed was often a woven mat on a wooden floor.
Na im make after e don talk about the kind people wey no go enter God Kingdom, e remind dem sey na so some of dem be before.		After listing a number of types of people who will not inherit God 's Kingdom, the apostle Paul added: " That is what some of you were. "
Na im make am talk sey: " Na when you help me I fit attack plenty soldiers; na God power I fit take climb high fence. "		He sang: " With your help I can charge against a marauder band; by God 's power I can scale a wall. "
Na im make for Greece for olden days, if pikin beat im papa or mama, e no go get any right again. For Rome law, if person beat im papa, dem dey look am like person wey kill person.		Interestingly, in ancient Greece, if a man struck his parents, he would lose all his civil rights; in Roman law, to strike a father was as serious as murder.
Na that time Felisa come tell me wetin e don dey learn.		Then Felisa told me what she had learned.
Na this one dey make us fit know wetin our Papa for heaven want make we do for different different matter.		In a comparable way, as we become progressively acquainted with 's thoughts and ways, we improve in our ability to perceive what our heavenly Father would want us to do in various circumstances.
Noah follow the true God waka. " - Gen.		Noah walked with the true God. " - Gen.
Noah name fit mean " Rest, or Consolation. " The meaning of the name fit make person mind come down and give am hope.		Imagine, then, how Noah must have felt when he learned that his name, which probably means " Rest; Consolation, " embodied hope!
One of dem na Abraham.		One of these was Abraham.
PEOPLE WEY COME MEMORIAL ( 2014 )		MEMORIAL ATTENDANCE ( 2014 )
Part of the things wey dem fit do to get that kind hour na to arrange different different group wey go dey preach five hours for some days.		Suggestions included organizing field service groups for five - hour days and focusing on making return visits, particularly during midweek evenings.
People wey dey our area come be the last people wey we preach to.		Last of all, we visited the people nearby.
Prophet Elisha come send im servant, wey im name na Gehazi, make e go resurrect the pikin.		The prophet sent his attendant Gehazi back to Shunem ahead of them.
Riana talk sey: " just help me when I need am.		Says Riana: " I felt 's helping hand just in time.
Satan dey use this world dey make us believe sey to fit enjoy life, we must get plenty property, whether we need am or we no need am.		Satan uses his world 's commercial system to seduce us into believing that having material things beyond our actual needs is necessary for the enjoyment of life.
So, for July 1943, my school principal drive me from school.		Finally, in July 1943, that pressure affected me personally.
Some congregation get money wey dem dey always send to branch office. Dem dey use this money build Assembly Hall and Kingdom Hall wey brothers for different part of the world go use.		Your congregation also no doubt has a standing resolution to assist financially with the worldwide program of building Assembly Halls and Kingdom Halls, which benefits our brothers throughout the earth.
Some wicked people fit dey pretend to be better people, the way 419 dey do.		Even if we ourselves have not been victims, such wicked people still affect us.
THIS time wey we dey, different from other time.		WE LIVE in a time of human history that is truly unique.
The Law still tell dem how sacrifice and water go fit make dem clean. - Lev., chap.		This could be done by sacrifice, washing, or sprinkling. - Lev., chaps.
The Watchtower still talk sey dem no too know how the IUD take dey work.		The article noted that it was not fully known how such IUDs functioned.
The brothers for this Department de answer plenty serious and hard questions wey elders and circuit overseers for the whole country de ask.		The brothers there have to deal with many sensitive and complex questions from elder bodies and circuit overseers around the country.
The message wey dey the envelope be sey, we don be circuit overseer.		We learned that we were being assigned as circuit overseers.
The people wey love no go ever stop to happy!		And those who love will be joyful forever!
The sister sey, e come be like sey dey tell me sey: " I love you, no be because sey you be pioneer, but because you be my pikin. And you don promise to use your life serve me.		She felt that was telling her: " I love you, not just because you are a pioneer, but because you are my daughter and dedicated to me.
The time wey something take dey pain us for body, dey different from another person own.		The grieving process can vary greatly from person to person.
They allow bad thing grow inside their heart.		Yet, even in such a good environment, many allowed bad desires to take root and grow.
This one dey help dem fit talk things together and e dey help dem get one mind.		The members meet weekly, which fosters close communication and unity.
This one go make still see us as better person. - Hag.		When we humbly and obediently trust in him, we too will be precious in his eyes. - Hag.
This one go make wahala no dey congregation and everybody go dey do things as one. - Acts 6: 1 - 4.		This can promote peace and order in the congregation. - Acts 6: 1 - 4.
This one go show sey we no dey raise shoulder, and our congregation go continue to get one mind. The one wey better pass be sey, go happy when we no dey raise shoulder.		Rather, our humility will help us to be submissive to those taking the lead, and such an obedient spirit is essential for unity in the congregation.
Today, many of those place wey we go na busy place wey people dey come visit well well, but that time na only river, sand sand, and palm tree full there.		Today, many of those islands are bustling tourist resorts, but back then they were secluded places with only turquoise lagoons, sandy beaches, and palm trees.
True true, dem do the work well. - Acts 1: 8; Col.		Indeed, they successfully carried out the task that he outlined for his followers. - Acts 1: 8; Col.
We don still learn about people for Bible wey dey wait for the time when dead people go come life again.		And men and women who served God anticipated that a resurrection would occur sometime in the future.
We go still talk about how their example fit help us wait for with better mind.		We will also consider how the examples of faithful men and women of old can help us learn to wait patiently.
We happy well well sey don give us Bible. E give us Bible because e love us.		Are we not grateful to for his written Word, the Bible?
Wetin Bible talk for this matter dey for 2 Corinthians 6: 14, 15.		The Scriptural principle is found at 2 Corinthians 6: 14, 15.
Wetin fit make am hard for us to know where we suppose do reach?		What situations, though, might put our modesty to the test?
Wetin help Stephen change im bad character?		What helped Stephen to put away anger and abusive speech?
Wetin we go do if our brother or sister for congregaton do wetin pain us?		How can we allow divine principles to help us act as Christians today?
Wetin we go do to fit keep ' the peace wey God dey give '?		How can we with full confidence retain " the peace of God "?
Wetin we go talk about for this topic, and why we go talk about am?		What will we analyze in this article, and why?
When I first think am, I no gree sey na true.		At first, I resisted this new idea.
When I reach Kingdom Hall, I dey take eye look for person wey sitdown on im own and no dey talk to anybody.		I look for someone who is sitting down in the Kingdom Hall, not talking to anyone.
When e dey 14 years, e start to pioneer. I join am pioneer for two years.		At age 14, he began pioneering, and I pioneered with him for two years.
When things start to worry you, your Papa wey dey heaven wey love you, want make you tell am your mind.		When you are confronted by situations that cause uneasiness, apprehension, or anxiety, pour out your heart to your loving heavenly Father.
Which kind freedom Jesus dey talk about when e sey, " If the Son make una free, una go really dey free "? The worst thing wey don make human being slave na sin. So Jesus dey talk sey we go dey free from sin.		When Jesus said: " If the Son sets you free, you will be truly free, " he was talking about liberation from the greatest bondage and oppression that humankind has ever experienced - being " a slave of sin. "
Which people go remain when wicked people no dey again?		Who will remain in place of wicked people?
Why? Apostle Paul talk sey: " If people wey don die no go come life, then e mean sey dem never bring Christ come life. "		The apostle Paul showed why the resurrection is central to our faith: " If, indeed, there is no resurrection of the dead, then Christ has not been raised up. "
Why want make you use your sense think?		Why does God want you to use your power of reason?
Why Solomon need to get strong mind?		Why did Solomon need to be courageous?
Why e be sey wetin God tell Adam and Eve for Genesis 2: 17 dey correct, dem need am, and e make sense?		Why was God 's command found at Genesis 2: 17 not unjust, unnecessary, or unreasonable?
Why e good make we dey think about how to dey encourage each other, especially now?		Why should we today be increasingly concerned about encouraging one another?
You fit dey think sey, ' How we go take know wetin go make happy for matter wey Bible law no dey? '		You may wonder, ' How can we know what approves of if his Word provides no specific command on the matter? '
You for no know whether God dey, how life take start or anything about your future.		You would not have satisfying answers to questions about God, life, and the future.
You remember wetin dey paragraph one?		Think about the scene mentioned at the beginning of this article.
So that the land go still clean for God eye. ( 2 ) If na mistake e take kill person, the elders go help am see sey go fit pity for am.		They were to keep the congregation of Israel clean and to help the unintentional manslayer to benefit from 's mercy.
E don tey wey Timothy start to preach.		Timothy was already an experienced Kingdom proclaimer.
If our friendship with strong, how e go take help us for our life?		How can strong spirituality help us in our daily life?
That time, the number of men wey fit form where Jew people dey worship na ten.		Is this because there are not even ten Jewish males in the city, the number required to form a synagogue?
Paul no only ready to encourage im brothers, but e still want ' use everything wey e get to help dem.		Paul was willing not only to encourage his brothers but also to " spend and be completely spent for " them.
Na when Paul just become Christian Jesus talk am.		The Lord Jesus said that about a new convert to Christianity, the Jewish man who became known as the apostle Paul.
People go don laugh Noah and even cause trouble for am. Dem fit even don threaten am.		It stands to reason, therefore, that Noah faced ridicule and opposition, perhaps even threats of violence.
Wetin fit make papa and mama happy?		What joy do all Christian parents strive for?
Jer. 10: 12 ) When we see how the things wey e make fine and how e take arrange dem, wetin that one teach us?		What can we learn from the beauty and order that are evident in creation?
Instead, e trust God, and e know sey the advice for Bible ' good pass things wey dem take dey fight war. ' - Eccl.		Instead, he trusted in God and in the wisdom found in His Word - wisdom that " is better than weapons of war. " - Eccl.
E show sey e dey patient with the way e take treat im disciples when dem make mistake.		He showed great patience in putting up with the weaknesses of his followers.
Since David and im men protect Nabal property, Nabal suppose give David wetin e ask for, no be so?		But Nabal, whose name means " Senseless " or " Stupid, " lived up to his name.
But make that one no make us stop to show sey we get cool temper.		Still, that should not prevent a Christian from cultivating a mild spirit.
Many of us don see how Bible take change our life and other people own.		Many of us are living proof of the Bible 's power to change lives.
If you plan wetin you want use your life do, why e no go hard you to choose better thing?		How can setting goals make decision - making easier?
E clear sey wetin do pass wetin Joseph get for mind.		No doubt 's actions exceeded all of Joseph 's expectations.
Abigail Get Better Sense! June		Resolve Conflicts and Promote Peace, June
According to Romans 10: 1, 2, wetin make Paul no tire to preach to people, even as they no de accept the good news?		According to Romans 10: 1, 2, for what reasons did Paul not give up on those who reacted negatively to the Kingdom message?
After six month, Jim come go another congregation, but dem no make am elder.		About six months later, he moved to a nearby congregation but was not appointed an elder there.
And dem go tell you sey dem no get time for any religion. This people fit never think the matter well to know if God really dey.		In many countries, it is not unusual to hear people say that they do not believe in God; they consider themselves to be nonreligious.
And we fit dey sure sey dey value wetin im servant dey do to fit serve am. - Read Hebrews 6: 10, 11.		And we can have full confidence in 's tender regard for what his servants do to stay faithful to him. - Read Hebrews 6: 10, 11.
Another thing be sey, Adam and Eve and their children no fit born pikin wey no get sin for body.		Furthermore, Adam and Eve could no longer have a perfect child; neither could any of their children have a perfect child.
Apostle Paul dey when dem do the meeting for Jerusalem for 49 C.E. E come let Peter know sey na pretend e dey pretend.		The apostle Paul, who was also present at that meeting in Jerusalem in 49 C.E., confronted Peter in Antioch and exposed his hypocrisy.
As Paul dey prison, e dey think about wetin happen to am that day.		As Paul sits in the darkness, he contemplates the events of the day.
As dem dey talk, the publisher go carry one verse for Bible enter the matter, wey go make the person talk.		As the conversation moves along, the publisher brings up a Scriptural point and elicits a response.
Because everybody get freedom to do wetin e want do. Two people wey dey serve no go always choose the same thing.		Since we all have the gift of free will, no two Christians will always make exactly the same decision.
Bible no talk sey dem go like enjoyment pass God, because that one go mean sey dem still love God small. But no be so e be.		Notice that the verse does not say that people would love pleasures more than God, implying that they would have some love for him.
But after ten years, dem come many pass before times ten!		Ten years later, there were ten times as many!
But e come still sey: " Una go get rest of mind.		And he added: " You will find refreshment for yourselves.
But no matter how things be, make we no think sey don leave us.		Yet, we should never allow such circumstances or feelings to convince us that has left us.
But wetin dey Bible show sey, e want make we dey wear better cloth as people wey dey worship am.		For example, he does not provide a detailed dress code for Christians.
Christine, one pioneer wey don pass 30 years, wey come from Germany, talk sey: " This kind thing no be wetin person fit forget. "		It 's such a good experience, " says Christine, a pioneer from Germany who is now in her early 30 ' s.
Continue to Fight Make Bless You, Sept.		By Undeserved Kindness You Were Set Free, Dec.
Dem remember when dem first use bicycle go on top hill for hot sun. Dem travel reach about 20 miles ( 32 km ).		They traveled the islands by boat and bicycle, and they well remember their first cycling trip - about 20 miles ( 32 km ) over steep hills, under the blazing sun.
E clear sey, this woman like and im Kingdom pass wetin im body want. - Mark 12: 29, 30.		Her love for and his Kingdom was stronger than any fleshly desires. - Mark 12: 29, 30.
E come still lie sey: ' Una no go die. '		Next, he told a blatant lie: " You certainly will not die. "
E fit still be sey you dey struggle with sickness or sey na only you dey or e dey hard you to forgive person wey make you vex.		We should also not overlook the struggle some have to forgive someone who has offended them or has sinned against them.
E get better sense and e use am well. ( Judg.		Yet, he acted with caution and shrewdness.
E make am sabi sey wetin e need different from wetin e want. E stll help am make e no dey worry about tomorrow.		She learned to distinguish between luxuries and necessities and not to be anxious about the next day.
E no want even allow other people wey ready to help. - 3 John 9, 10.		He even tried to hinder others from showing hospitality. - 3 John 9, 10.
E talk say: " I believe say my tribe better pass other tribe, and I join one party for politics.		I believed that my tribe was superior to all others, and I joined a political party, " he says.
E want make we do wetin we fit do, and anything wey we do dey make am happy. - Heb.		He only expects from us what is reasonable, and he greatly appreciates whatever we do. - Heb.
Even if many people for your area no want study Bible, preaching fit still dey sweet you.		You can enjoy making disciples even if few people in your territory respond to the good news.
Even though say e no go dey with them, God go still help them. ready to answer their prayer and help them make they continue to preach.		was ready to answer their prayers for any help they needed to carry out the command to preach the Kingdom message.
For example, e get sometimes wey you go don tire, but you still go meeting or preaching.		At times, we may feel exhausted when we leave home to attend a congregation meeting or to engage in the field ministry.
For the ending of the book of Daniel, we read wetin God promise am.		At the end of the book of Daniel, we read God 's assurance to him: " As for you, go on to the end.
Hebrews 11: 7 talk about Noah faith.		Hebrews 11: 7 highlights the faith of Noah who, " after receiving divine warning of things not yet seen, showed godly fear and constructed an ark for the saving of his household. "
How papa and mama fit help their pikin serve well?		How can parents help their children to become fine servants of?
How we fit do like Noah?		How can we imitate Noah 's example?
How we go take copy Job example?		How we can imitate Job 's faith and obedience.
How we go take show sey we get faith?		In what ways should we exercise our faith?
How you fit do wetin Jesus talk, wey go help you no too worry?		What practical steps can you take to reduce anxiety?
I come ask am sey, " You know how many years I dey? "		Do you know how old I am? " I asked.
I de feel like the person wey e write Psalm 94: 19. The verse talk say: " When something de worry me for heart, you comfort me and you reduce my pain. "		I feel like the psalmist who declared: " When anxieties overwhelmed me, [ ] comforted and soothed me. "
I go sing to, because e don bless me no be small. '		I will sing to, for he has richly rewarded me. "
I learn plenty things for this assignment.		That was a learning experience.
I never learn another language before, and I dey sure sey I no go fit sabi any one.		I never studied a foreign language and was convinced that I could not master one.
If we dey patient, e go show sey we love and other people.		Patience is also an expression of our love for others.
If you be single sister wey really want do this work and enjoy am, we dey sure sey their answer go help you.		If you are a single sister with a heartfelt desire to share in a ministry that is deeply satisfying, we are sure you will benefit from their comments.
Instead, I de ask myself say: ' How the things wey they don face for their life don affect the way them de think and feel?		Instead, I ask myself: ' How has their background shaped their emotions and thinking?
don help you when you dey face problem before? ( Isa.		You may already have experienced how 's mighty hand helped you to recover from some trial.
Jephthah promise sey if e help am win Ammon people, e go give am the first person wey come welcome am. E sey the person go dey serve for im tabernacle.		Before going out to combat the Ammonites, Judge Jephthah vowed that if gave him the victory, the first person who would come out to meet him after the battle would be devoted to 's service at the sanctuary.
Jesus still dey use elders to take care of people. ( Eph.		Christ also gave to the congregation " gifts in men " - elders to shepherd God 's flock.
Jesus talk sey go bless us if we do anything wey we fit do to serve am. - Mark 10: 28 - 30.		Jesus promised that any sacrifices we make to worship will be richly rewarded. - Mark 10: 28 - 30.
Jim no go meeting for ten years.		Jim remained spiritually inactive for ten years.
Like all of us, refugee need to make sure sey the number one thing for their life na work, no be money and property.		Like all other Christians, refugees need to resist the temptation and pressure to compromise their relationship with in order to obtain material things.
Make we talk about wetin we fit learn from Jesus example.		Consider Jesus ' example.
Make you still dey hungry to learn wetin dey Bible.		Remain eager to learn.
Na this one make organization dey look for how dem go take reduce the money wey dem dey spend. And dem still dey make the work wey dem dey do simple, so that dem go fit manage the money well and do plenty better things.		Thus, the organization looks for ways to reduce expenses and simplify the work so as to be able to accomplish the most that it can with your generous donations.
No Follow Wetin People Dey Talk, Nov.		I Have Hope Toward God, " Dec.
Papa and mama, make wuna teach wuna children make they try do pass just to read answer from book, or talk wetin person tell them. If you do this one, you de help them make their light shine.		Parents, help your children to let their light shine by teaching them to comment in their own words.
Papa and mama wey dey serve well, want make their pikin be like Samuel wey support as e dey grow. - 1 Sam.		God - fearing fathers and mothers want their children to be like Samuel, for was with him while he was growing up. - 1 Sam.
Paul advice Timothy sey: " Dey train yourself with the mind to hold God tight. " ( 1 Tim.		Paul exhorted Timothy: " Train yourself with godly devotion as your aim. "
Sakiko still talk sey: " When we see am sey dem really want learn about, my family come start to learn Portuguese. "		When we saw their spiritual hunger, " says Sakiko, " we began to study Portuguese as a family. "
Sibia, the boat wey we use as our missionary house from 1948 reach 1953 ( right )		The schooner Sibia served as our missionary home from 1948 to 1953
Since that time, Reylene come dey put wetin want as the number one thing for im life. E know sey go take care of am as Matthew 6: 33, 34 talk.		Since then, Reylene has been a living example of putting faith in 's promise found at Matthew 6: 33, 34.
Sometimes, soldiers fit use lie put fear for their enemy body.		Military strategists may use propaganda to undermine morale and weaken the fighting spirit.
Sometimes we fit see sey we need to change wetin we don choose.		There may be occasions when it would be good for us to reconsider a choice or decision.
THINK am sey you dey waka for road for night.		IMAGINE that you are walking on the street late at night.
That place talk sey: ' Make the person wey wicked comot hand for wicked thing. ' Another one wey help me na 1 Corinthians 6: 11. E talk about people wey comot hand from the bad things wey dem dey do before.		Bible texts that encouraged me were Isaiah 55: 7, which says: ' Let the wicked man leave his way, ' and 1 Corinthians 6: 11, which says about those who had abandoned sinful ways: ' And yet that is what some of you were. '
The Bible Student come talk sey dem " go continue to preach God word reach the end. "		In one typical case, an investigator reported that despite stern warnings, the Bible Students he questioned insisted that they would " continue to preach the word of God to the end. "
The man tell my mama if e go study Bible.		He offered my mother a Bible study.
The mark wey people wey go follow Jesus rule go get, different from the great crowd own.		Faithful anointed ones do not need to receive this mark for survival.
This kind question go help us fit enjoy our Bible reading and we go learn plenty things.		When we reflect on such questions, we will surely get more out of our Bible reading.
This kind thing suppose make Asa fear and dey worry. Or even make im hand weak to fight. But no be wetin Asa do be that.		You can imagine how easy it would have been for Asa to become anxious and fearful and to let his hands drop down in defeat.
This one go help us remove anything about sex wey God no like, and we no go de think say we better pass other people. - Gal. 5: 26; read Colossians 3: 5.		How important it is that we constantly search our heart, reject immoral thoughts, and suppress unhealthy pride! - Gal. 5: 26; read Colossians 3: 5.
This work don make life sweet me. "		This service has enriched my life. "
Use Your Freedom Well, Jan.		Praise Jah! " - Why?
We come see sey we don dey help dem love from their mind.		Then we began to realize that we really were instilling appreciation for spiritual matters in their young hearts.
We dey build.		Construction.
We dey feel like Deborah and Barak wey sing for Bible sey: ' Make your enemy dem die, O. But make people wey love you shine like sun wey dey come out. ' ( Judg.		With Deborah and Barak, we sing: " Let all your enemies perish, O, but let those who love you be like the sun rising in its glory. "
We fit learn many better things from the different city wey tell Israel people to build for who kill person by mistake.		We can learn valuable lessons from the arrangement of the cities of refuge in ancient Israel.
We get many friend wey love and wey dey use their time preach. Especially Don and Earlene, Dave and Julia, and Si and Martha wey come from Steele family. We and dem dey always talk about.		We had close association and upbuilding spiritual discussions with many who were fully involved in the Kingdom work, especially the Steele family - Don and Earlene, Dave and Julia, and Si and Martha - who influenced my life very much.
Wetin promise go touch you. E sey: ' Na people wey dey carry body down go stay for this earth. Dem go happy well well because peace dey everywhere. '		makes this heartwarming promise: " The meek will possess the earth, and they will find exquisite delight in the abundance of peace. "
Wetin dey cause this one na the kind thing wey person dey like, wey e dey put mind and wey be number one for im life.		Materialism is rooted in one 's desires, priorities, and focus in life.
Wetin we fit do to show sey we dey copy dem?		In what practical ways, though, can we imitate their examples?
When I begin read them, I see fine - fine picture for inside.		When I was able to examine them, I found vivid illustrations that fired my imagination.
When Jesus Christ dey tell im disciple dem about the small time wey remain for the world to end; e tell dem sey: ' Make you dey look, make you dey watch, because you no know when e go be. '		When speaking of " the conclusion of the system of things, " Jesus Christ urged his disciples: " Keep looking, keep awake, for you do not know when the appointed time is. "
When e ask Job this question, Eliphaz think sey the answer na no.		When Eliphaz the Temanite first posed them to Job, Eliphaz no doubt believed that the answer was no.
When we dey try to use all our mind pray to and we no tire to pray to am, e go fit answer us.		can respond to our earnest, heartfelt, and persistent supplications.
When we get problem, make we no rush do anything wey come our mind. Instead, make we think about Bible verse wey fit help us and follow wetin e talk.		If a problem arises, we ought to consider what Bible principles are involved and apply them in a balanced way.
When we open our door, we come see our landlord. E don climb reach up, and e carry one big knife for hand.		When we opened the door, our landlord was standing at the top of the stairs, holding a huge knife.
When we see person wey want sell cow, we go tell the person the better way wey God take make cow.		When we found someone with a cow to sell, we would mention to that person how amazingly designed cows are.
Why you dey sure sey to near more more fit help you dey strong make problem no too worry you?		Why can you be confident that your relationship with God will strengthen you?
Work wey dey bring plenty money dey make person really happy?		Is succeeding in a career the key to happiness?
Make wuna wear the complete soldier uniform wey God de give, so that wuna go fit stand and face all the style wey Satan de use. " - EPH.		Put on the complete suit of armor from God so that you may be able to stand firm against the crafty acts of the Devil. " - EPH.
Make we dey use wetin we dey learn for Bible dey tell ourself the truth all the time.		Honest self - appraisal in the light of God 's Word should be a regular part of our thinking.
You fit use small time learn something wey go help you get part - time work.		Perhaps a short school course will qualify you for part - time work that is in demand locally.
Wetin go do for you if you dey obey am?		How does God view all who uphold his standards?
Wetin Noah learn touch im heart, and this one make am serve. - Gen.		In any event, what Noah learned touched his heart, moving him to serve God. - Gen.
and Jesus dey care for all this brothers and sisters. - Read 2 Thessalonians 2: 16, 17.		and Christ comfort all these faithful servants. - Read 2 Thessalonians 2: 16, 17.
How some people for Malachi time dey treat their wife?		How were some men treating their wives in Malachi 's day?
How You Dey Choose Wetin You Go Do?		How Do You Make Personal Decisions?
All of dem dress well.		All are neatly dressed.
And remember sey our preaching work na the same for the whole world.		And recognize that the same fundamental principles of preaching apply all over the world.
Another thing be sey as we dey read the book dem, our mind go dey for the things wey concern God and our faith go dey strong. - Titus 2: 2.		We know that these provisions from help us to stay spiritually alert, well - fed, and " healthy in faith. " - Titus 2: 2.
As you dey try to do wetin you get for mind for work, make you ' no tire to wait. '		As you work toward your goals, show " a waiting attitude. "
Because Bible talk sey, make we love with our brothers and sisters. So, if we really like wetin dey Bible, we go do wetin e talk. - 1 Pet.		Because love for Bible truth moves us to obey from the heart the Scriptural commandments to love God and to love our brothers. - 1 Pet.
Because of the sin wey dey our body, e get some things wey people go do wey fit hard us to forgive.		Granted, there are degrees of sin, and some offenses are very hard for imperfect humans to forgive.
Bible no tell us wetin fit make person leave who e marry go stay im own.		The Bible does not set out grounds for marital separation.
Bible talk about promise wey people promise God.		As used in the Bible, a vow is a solemn promise that is made to God.
But e still get other things wey make person wey get God spirit different from person wey im body dey control.		In what other ways do physical and spiritual individuals differ?
But something happen wey change their life.		But then a change occurred.
But the number one person wey help me na.		But most of all, helped me.
Dem do wetin dem fit do to make sure sey dem no leave the work wey Jesus give dem.		They would try their best never again to let down their Master.
Dem know sey to do that kind thing mean sey dem dey support bad thing.		They feel that by doing so, they would be condoning or promoting corruption.
Dem no dey born person with joy and person no fit get am by imself.		We are not born with such joy; nor does it develop automatically.
Doctor wey dey do operation, electrician, plumber, engineer and pilot dey follow wetin don arrange when dem dey do their work.		Electricians, plumbers, engineers, pilots, surgeons - all of them depend on these laws in order to do their work.
E come carry the fire and knife for hand, and two of dem come dey waka go together. '		Then he took in his hands the fire and the knife, and the two of them walked on together. "
E like make e be number one for congregation, e no dey respect John, and e dey talk bad things about apostle John and other people.		He liked to have the first place in the congregation, he received nothing from John with respect, and he was spreading malicious talk about the apostle and others.
E need to think about wetin e go do for im wife to dey respect am.		Most likely that would not happen.
E still talk sey: " As we go back to French congregation, our pikin come start to dey serve well again, e come baptize.		He states: " From the time we moved back to a French - speaking congregation, our son blossomed spiritually and got baptized.
E tell dem sey: ' Na me be the same person, dem no make any God before me and after me no one still dey. '		Before me no God was formed, and after me there has been none. "
Even if their life for Babylon better, what about how dem take dey serve?		Although the material needs of the exiled Jews were being met, what of their spiritual needs?
Even though sey im husband no dey there, e no go buy am.		Likely, she already knows the answer, even though her husband is not with her.
For example, dem fit translate am as " who " or " whom ".		For example, it can be understood as a relative pronoun, such as " who " or " whom. "
For example, when apostle Paul dey do im missionary work, e preach well well for one area. One country wey dem dey call Turkey today, dey the area.		For example, the apostle Paul went to the region where modern - day Turkey is situated and preached there extensively during his missionary journeys.
For the new earth wey God go soon bring, people go do better things wey go make dem happy.		The Paradise earth will be bustling with happy activity.
For this world today, people dey speak different different language, and dem no dey do things the same way. E good make we know wetin want make we do, so that e go fit be ' our God. '		In today 's diversified and multicultural world, we must understand what requires of us so that we can have him as " our God. "
How Bible fit make our mind come down?		How can God 's Word relieve our anxiety?
How go take show you love?		What does 's love mean to you?
How we fit take do good to people wey come meeting?		How can we be hospitable at our Christian meetings?
How you see the different different way wey we get to do good?		opportunities we have to extend hospitality?
I dey among the brothers wey dem invite.		I was one of the brothers invited.
If anybody for congregation do bad thing, make elders sofri help am. - Gal.		If a Christian takes a false step before he is aware of it, qualified men should try to readjust him in a spirit of mildness. - Gal.
If we follow the things wey this topic talk about, e go help us ' make our light de shine ' more.		This article offers practical suggestions that, when applied, will certainly help us to ' let our light shine ' more fully.
If you dey think like this, e go make una no dey quarrel for wetin no reach anything. - Phil.		Being reasonable can help you to avoid needless marital conflict. - Phil.
If you enter full - time service, go happy. This kind thing go make life sweet you well well.		Serving fully will bring you deep satisfaction because it is the way of life that honors God.
Im bad character no come dey make am serve well.		His habit was hurting him spiritually.
Jacob ( Israel ) firstborn na Reuben, wey Leah born for am.		Of the sons of Jacob ( Israel ), his firstborn by Leah was Reuben.
dey ' make our mind come down anytime wey we dey face wahala '		comforts us in all our trials "
Jesus no begin count all the bad things wey im disciples do am that night and before that night.		Jesus did not feel the need to enumerate the disciples ' shortcomings, including what they had done on the night he was arrested.
Jesus no go lead for only small time.		Jesus ' leadership was not meant to last only a few years.
Jew people no like this tax at all.		The Jews especially resented this tax.
Like Peter, fit still help us to think like Jesus.		We can do the same.
Make we remember wetin Galatians 6: 5 talk. E sey: ' Everybody get the work to carry im own load. '		Galatians 6: 5 reminds us: " Each one will carry his own load of responsibility. "
Make we talk about Abraham and Sarah example.		Consider the example of Abraham and Sarah.
Many people for im family come dey serve.		Many in that student 's family eventually accepted the truth.
Na one farm for Siberia dem put am mek e dey work, and dem come dey treat am like slave.		There she worked on a farm and was treated like a slave.
Na so we take start to go meeting. After, dem come form one small congregation for Hemsworth.		We quickly responded, and a small congregation was formed in Hemsworth.
Nothing dey pain person pass when leave am.		Nothing stings more than feeling abandoned by him.
Nothing go do am if e stay there until the high priest die. - Num.		The unintentional manslayer had to remain in the city of refuge until the high priest 's death. - Num.
Once the sin don go, e don go.		Once the sin is gone, it 's gone.
One sister wey im husband die talk sey, ' I don see am sey, na wetin person do as time dey go, na im dey help am. ' E just be like person wey get wound.		One widow observed, " I have found it more accurate to say that it is what one does with one 's time that helps one to heal. "
Or e get another thing wey dey worry you?		Or is there something else that distresses you?
Or na im make am let people know sey im be Jesus disciple?		If Joseph had witnessed Jesus ' agony on the torture stake, did that awful scene move him to examine his conscience and finally decide that he ought to take a stand for truth?
Peter first talk sey e no go ever leave Jesus.		The apostles fled.
Remember sey e fit no easy for elders to advice us.		Keep in mind that elders may find that it is not easy to approach us with needed counsel.
Sixteen years after dem reach Jerusalem, dem never still build temple finish.		Sixteen years later, the building of 's temple was at a standstill.
So, the branch committee tell brothers and sisters wey want be pioneer sey dem no need pioneer for Britain again. Dem come tell the publishers sey make dem go other country dem for Europe go pioneer.		Hence, the branch had told prospective pioneers that the field in Britain had no more room and urged them to serve in other European countries.
So Noah do everything wey tell am.		He had never built an ark before.
Sometimes, the papa and mama fit no be Witness.		There have been instances when a Witness was asked to study with children whose parents were not interested in the truth.
Sometimes I no dey happy when I reach Kingdom Hall.		Sometimes I feel depressed when I arrive at the Kingdom Hall.
Tell am make e try dey read Watchtower and Awake! as dem dey come out.		Encourage him to read every issue of The Watchtower and Awake!
That day, me and other people stand for front of one big container wey dem dey use give animal water. The water cold and we dey inside one house for farm dey shake.		You might be surprised to know, however, that on that very day, a small group of us were shivering in an unheated barn.
That time, my four senior sisters no dey stay with us again.		My four older sisters had already left home to work as schoolteachers.
The husband talk sey: " Before our children start to waka and talk, we dey tell dem about the gain wey person wey dey pioneer or dey help congregation, dey gain.		The husband explains: " Before our children could walk and talk, we would speak to them about the joys of pioneering and serving the congregation.
The thing wey Adam, Eve, and the wicked angels do, teach us two important lessons.		The examples of Adam, Eve, and the rebellious angels teach us at least two important lessons.
The truth be sey, all of us need to learn how to control how we dey feel and we need to dey quick forgive.		No doubt all of us need to work at being less sensitive and more forgiving.
Think am for your mind sey dem see Sisera as e dey run pass their place make Israel army no catch am kill!		Imagine the people of Meroz catching sight of this vicious warrior as he ran right through their streets alone and desperate.
This people dey beg for verse 11 sey make dem ' save dem and free dem ' from the wicked people hand. The way we translate am now come still change the way we understand verse 15.		This adjustment is also reflected in verse 15, where the two occurrences of the word " happy " are now in parallel in a positive or complementary way.
This things wey Moses tell dem go help dem well well.		Moses ' final words would understandably have a profound effect on the people.
This young people dey try do wetin dem plan to use their life do for. And the preaching work dey among the things wey dem value pass.		Youths do this by reaching out for spiritual goals and by giving the preaching work high priority.
Today, Troas na northwest of the country wey dem dey call Turkey.		One time, the apostle Paul was at a meeting in an upper room in Troas, in what is now northwest Turkey.
Two of dem don tire well well. E don reach one year since dem start to dey travel like this and dem don travel pass 12,000 miles ( 19,300 km ). Dem dey travel go far place wey hard to reach for Australia.		Since leaving the city a year earlier, they had traveled more than 12,000 miles ( 19,300 km ) through some of the most remote and rugged regions of the continent.
We go dey patient so that wetin we dey learn for Bible go dey help us change our life.		We must be patient as we endeavor to let the Bible continue to produce positive changes in our life.
We go talk about four way wey you fit do am. ( 1 ) Dey use all your mind pray, ( 2 ) dey read Bible and think well about wetin you dey read, ( 3 ) dey beg make e give you im holy spirit, and ( 4 ) tell better friend wey you trust about wetin dey worry you for mind.		Let us consider four ways that you can do so - by means of heartfelt prayer, by reading God 's Word and meditating on it, by tapping into 's holy spirit, and by sharing your feelings with a trusted confidant.
Wetin Bible talk sey better pass gold or silver?		The Bible identifies what as more valuable than gold or silver?
Wetin e mean to fear God and do things wey go save you?		What does it mean to work out your own salvation " with fear and trembling "?
Wetin e talk about this matter fit help us today.		His counsel on these matters is valuable for us today.
Wetin fit make Paul surprise as dem put am for prison, but wetin e no do?		Why may Paul have found his imprisonment confusing; yet, what attitude did he display?
Wetin go happen when we get ' the peace wey God dey give wey pass anything wey person fit understand '?		What results when we receive this " peace of God that surpasses all understanding "?
Wetin make one young brother mind come down, when e no happy?		How was one young brother helped during a time of distress?
When Assyria people dey plan to attack Judah, Hezekiah tell im men and im people wetin help dem get mind.		When threatened by the Assyrians, Hezekiah assembled the military chiefs and the people of Judah to encourage them.
When Israel people dey Promise Land, dem need to choose whether dem go serve or other gods.		Once settled in the Promised Land, the ancient Israelites had a very basic, vital choice: Worship or serve some other god ( or gods ).
When Jesus dey this world, e tell im disciples to dey carry body down. ( Matt.		When on earth, Jesus admonished his disciples to humble themselves.
When Jesus teach im disciple how to pray, wetin e sey suppose be the first thing for their life?		When Jesus taught his followers how to pray, what did he say should be most important in their life?
Which ' good news ' Paul preach wey make am clear sey dey show favor?		What " good news " did Paul preach that highlighted 's undeserved kindness?
Why Romans chapter 8 dey special for Christians wey dey go heaven?		Why is Romans chapter 8 of special interest to anointed Christians?
Why e be like that?		How did this come to be?
You dey see brothers and sisters for congregation as people wey God still dey mold?		Do you similarly see each of your spiritual brothers and sisters as a work in progress, being molded by God?
You fit think sey your problem big pass you, and you no fit handle am.		You may feel that your situation is too difficult and the load too heavy for you to carry.
You sabi pass dem.		You know better.
book; and make e still check the Bible verse dem.		book and look up cited scriptures.
with person, make we use some minute tell am about organization everytime wey we study with am but e go be after we study finish.		we take a few minutes after each study to direct the student 's attention to the organization.
This one go help us carry ourself down so that go fit mold us.		Doing so helps us to remain humble before and be malleable in his hands.
How papa and mama fit follow wetin God talk when dem dey mold their pikin dem?		How can Christian parents submit to God when molding their children?
Joseph really get better mind because e bury Jesus for where im family suppose bury am when e die. This one match wetin Bible don talk tey tey sey dem go bury Jesus with rich people. - Isa.		Burying Jesus in Joseph 's own future tomb was a generous gesture on Joseph 's part and fulfilled the prophecy that the Messiah would be buried " with the rich. " - Isa.
See how Jesus take different from Herod Agrippa I, wey come be king for Judea!		What a contrast to Herod Agrippa I, who became king, or leader, of Judea about eight years later!
So, if you no dey miss meeting, you go fit be papa, mama, brother, or sister to one of this our brother dem.		If you attend meetings regularly, you could become like a father, mother, brother, or sister to someone in the congregation.
How brothers wey don baptize fit show sey dem get strong mind?		How can baptized brothers be courageous?
Which kind freedom spirit dey give us?		What sort of freedom does 's spirit bring?
Which kind people need better word today like Jephthah pikin?		Who today deserve similar encouragement?
plan wetin you go use your life do for?		to set goals in life?
How wetin dey Isaiah 60: 22 take dey happen for our time?		How has Isaiah 60: 22 come true in this time of the end?
Why jealousy no good?		Why is jealousy dangerous?
We suppose think about this one well well especially when we dey do anything wey concern name like meeting and preaching.		This is especially so when we are engaging in Christian activities, such as when we attend meetings or when we share in the preaching work.
Which Kind Love Dey Really Make Person Happy?		What Kind of Love Brings True Happiness?
When Jesus dey this earth, wetin Jew people de expect?		What political expectations did the Jews have in Jesus ' day?
Pet. 5: 9 ) But e be like say na young people Satan de like to catch pass other people.		Young ones seem to be a special target for Satan.
After, na Maxine come dey arrange our magazine wey dem go send every month give people wey need am. E dey arrange pass one thousand every week.		Later, Maxine processed the magazine subscriptions - over a thousand a week.
And, ( 6 ) we want show other people better example. ( 2 Cor. 4: 2 ) - w17.07, pp.		We respect the conscience of others, and we want to be exemplary. - w17.07, pp.
And e go still need to fight and win the people wey dey stay the land.		This involved conquering powerful armies of the nations that occupied the territory.
Angels help Jesus.		Angels assisted Jesus.
As take dey use all im mind forgive una, make una still dey do like that.		Just as freely forgave you, you must also do the same.
As dem dey fight World War II for Europe for 1939, something happen for our village wey change us.		Then, in 1939, as World War II engulfed Europe, an event in our village jolted us.
Because love us, we no go fear to do any work wey e give us for im organization.		Because of 's love, we can feel secure wherever we serve in his household.
Because dem know sey na serious matter for person wey want follow Jesus to give im life to and baptize. E no get any other matter wey serious pass this one. - Check the box " You Don Give Your Life? "		After all, dedication and baptism are the most important steps in a Christian 's life. - See the box " Have You Dedicated Yourself to? "
Bible even get plenty example about how servants of God pray loud. We no read for any place say they fear say Satan go hear wetin they talk. ( 1 Ki.		In fact, the Bible contains many examples of God 's servants who prayed out loud, and there is no hint that these ones feared that the Devil would hear them.
Bible sey: " Make una no dey make una pikin vex, but make una dey use way correct dem and dey teach dem. " ( Eph.		Family heads are told: " Do not be irritating your children, but go on bringing them up in the discipline and admonition of. "
Bible talk sey dem ' dey see other people as nothing. ' - Luke 18: 9 - 14.		The Bible says that they " considered others as nothing. " - Luke 18: 9 - 14.
But, why e good for people to know where dem suppose do reach, or to know sey dem no suppose do oversabi?		Why, though, does modesty still matter?
But God come ' wash dem clean ' and ' make dem dey holy. '		Yet, they were " washed clean " and " sanctified. "
But e get sometimes wey Asa do wetin no like.		For example, he sought help from the king of Syria rather than from.
But how e start and why e dey? The answer go help us see marriage as God dey see am and help us enjoy the blessing wey dey marriage pass as we dey enjoy am now.		A review of its origin and purpose can help us to have a proper view of this relationship and enjoy its intended blessings more fully.
But since na give dem the Law, we fit learn things from inside.		Remember, though, that the Law came from.
But when person dey face this kind thing, e dey make am near more more.		But when you go through these kinds of situations, you draw closer to.
CAIN for Bible need to choose. E go control im temper or let im temper make am sin?		CAIN had a choice, a decision to make: Get the mastery over his sinful emotions or let his emotions rule his actions.
Check May 1, 1956 Watchtower, pp. 269 - 272, and March 15, 1971, Watchtower pp. 186 - 190, to know more about the missionary work wey some people for Steele family do.		See the Watchtower magazines of May 1, 1956, pp. 269 - 272, and March 15, 1971, pp. 186 - 190, to learn more about the missionary work of members of the Steele family.
Colossians 3: 5 ( read am ) warn us well well about things wey fit make us no come dey worship only again.		At Colossians 3: 5 ( read ), we find strong counsel to Christians regarding what might break their exclusive relationship with.
David and Rachel na just two example of people wey holy spirit don help them get better character, like peace. When we follow wetin Bible talk and trust to help us with e spirit, we go get peace.		David and Rachel are just two examples of the peaceful fruitage that results when we apply inspired Scriptural principles and rely on God 's spirit to help us.
Dem come tell the six men wey carry wetin dem take dey scatter things sey make dem kill all the people wey no get the mark. ( Ezek.		Then, the men with the smashing weapons were told to kill all those in the city who did not have the mark.
Dem go tell the boy sey, " Choose the one wey you like pass. "		Choose which one you want, " they would say.
Dem sey e be like sey the family of the person wey kill person by mistake dey later go meet am for the city wey e run go.		Beginning in the late 19th century, The Watch Tower drew attention to the prophetic significance of the cities of refuge.
Dem show us better example wey we go follow if we promise something.		They are excellent examples for men and women today who choose to make vows to.
E fit be sey Paul still think about wetin don happen to am before.		Perhaps Paul is also thinking about the events of the past few months.
E fit still help you!		It can help you too!
E reach around 20 people wey come, and some of dem ask question about Bible.		About 20 people were there, and some asked Bible questions.
E still sey: ' But if dem no fit control theirself, make dem marry, because e go better if dem marry instead of their body to dey hot for sex. '		Paul added: " If they do not have self - control, let them marry, for it is better to marry than to be inflamed with passion. "
E talk sey, if to sey the brothers stop to preach, dem for no carry us go court.		Supreme Court, stated: " The victories won are due to your fight.
E tell dem the main things wey e want make dem do.		Rather than speak in generalities, he covered specific points.
E write sey: ' We never stop to pray for una and to dey beg sey make una sabi the correct truth well about wetin [ God ] want, with all the good sense and the things wey God spirit dey make us sabi, make una fit dey waka the way wey want so that una go do wetin e like well, as una dey produce fruit for every good thing and as una dey sabi the correct truth about God more more. ' ( Col.		He wrote: " We have never stopped praying for you and asking that you may be filled with the accurate knowledge of [ God 's ] will in all wisdom and spiritual comprehension, so as to walk worthily of in order to please him fully as you go on bearing fruit in every good work and increasing in the accurate knowledge of God. "
Even though sey faith dey important, we no go need am again when God don do wetin e promise and when we don dey enjoy wetin we dey wait for.		Although faith is essential, aspects of this quality will pass away when we see the fulfillment of God 's promises and experience the reality of our Christian hope.
For example, if the person sabi talk and you quiet, think of how that one dey help am for preaching.		If the person is a talker and you are quiet, think of the ease with which he starts conversations in the ministry.
For example, person wey dey study Bible, fit use small time take read and understand What Does the Bible Really Teach?		For example, a person may in a relatively short time be able to read and understand the book What Does the Bible Really Teach?
For this example, Jesus no talk wetin be the fruit but the thing wey e talk fit help us know the answer.		In this illustration, Jesus did not directly say what that fruitage is, but he did mention a significant detail that helps us to determine the answer.
God Show Us Im Favor for Different Different Way ( D.		Matthews ), Oct. Determined to Be a Soldier of Christ ( D.
How Job take show sey e know well?		In what ways did Job show that he truly knew?
How we suppose treat people wey dey eat the bread and drink the wine for Memorial?		How should we treat someone who partakes of the Memorial emblems?
How we take know sey to change no be one day work?		How do we know that we can keep putting on the new personality?
How your strong faith fit help you?		How can strong faith protect you?
I dey remember the Bible verse where Jesus talk am every time, and e still dey touch me.		I often recall that scripture, and it still touches my heart.
I fit come get one kind big sickness wey fit make me no pioneer for another country.		I might come down with a serious illness and miss my chance to pioneer overseas.
If them dey as one, e go show say na really send Jesus make e come this world and do wetin God want.		Their unity would give a powerful witness, offering clear evidence that had sent Jesus to the earth to do God 's will.
If you get problem wey dey worry you for mind, fit give you sense to handle am.		You may face difficulties that cause you to become anxious.
Im and e wife see power for the way e take help dem when wahala happen for Japan. For 2011, plenty water scatter people property and kill people for Japan.		Consider, for example, Mutsuo and his wife, who experienced 's sustaining power following the 2011 Japan tsunami.
na God wey dey use better word help person. E don dey do this one since Adam and Eve sin.		EVER since humankind fell into sin and imperfection, has proved that he is a God who gives encouragement.
dey look the good things wey we dey do for im servant, like sey na im we dey do am for.		considers acts of loyal love expressed toward his servants as being rendered to him personally.
Law even talk say they no want see white and black people together. And people fit even do you bad if you no obey the law.		There were laws in place to make it illegal for the races to mix, and there was also the very real threat of violence.
Make we learn from the example of olden days people why e good make we continue to dey watch.		We can learn a lesson from ancient times about the importance of being watchful.
Make we take one example.		Consider an illustration.
Many sickness dey worry my wife. ( 2 Cor.		Mary struggles with numerous health problems.
Na ' new heaven and new earth. ' ' New heaven ' na the new government or God Kingdom wey go rule this earth and the ' new earth ' na the good people wey that government go dey rule.		The expression " new heavens and a new earth " means that there will be a new government and a new earthly society over which that government rules.
Na farm work our family take dey chop so we no dey take am play. But we no take am as number one thing for our life.		Farming was an important part of our family 's life, but it was not the most important part.
Na the kind mind wey dey think sey, " make I just do am, make e no be sey I no do am? " ' When we think about this question dem, e go help us know wetin we like pass for life.		Thinking about and meditating on how we feel about our secular and spiritual activities can help us to determine where our true affection lies.
Na this one make am tell Moses to make Joshua oga and encourage am, so that im mind go strong. ( Deut.		God said: " Commission Joshua and encourage him and strengthen him, because he is the one who will cross over before this people and he is the one who will cause them to inherit the land that you will see. "
Na true sey the time wey Jesus get to take preach small, but e still go back go check people wey want learn.		Jesus had limited time to carry out his ministry.
No be so. If e fit happen, I want make everybody wey dey serve be prophet and make put im spirit on top dem! '		No, I wish that all of 's people were prophets and that would put his spirit on them! "
No dey do like sey you better pass other people.		Take the lead in showing honor to others.
One boy wey im name na Austin talk sey: " E dey hard me sometimes to do wetin my papa and mama talk. But I know sey wetin dem talk na something wey I fit do. Dem dey tell me why I suppose do am.		Though I often felt inclined to try to get away with things, " admits Austin, " my parents set reasonable guidelines, explained the reasons for rules, and kept the lines of communication wide open.
One young sister wey im name na Heather, talk sey: " E no easy for person to sitdown plan wetin e want use im life do.		A girl named Heather says: " It 's scary.
Other small small court still dey for Judea.		Lower courts existed throughout Judea.
Our Papa, dey sofri mold us because e love us.		Yes, out of love for his children, patiently molds us.
PEOPLE WEY COME MEMORIAL ( 2017 )		MEMORIAL ATTENDANCE ( 2017 )
Paul advise Timothy sey: ' Person wey dey serve God no suppose fight, but e suppose dey gentle with everybody, suppose fit teach, dey control imsef if dem do am bad, dey sofri sofri tell people wey stubborn wetin dem go do. '		Paul advised Timothy: " A slave of the Lord does not need to fight, but needs to be gentle toward all, qualified to teach, showing restraint when wronged, instructing with mildness those not favorably disposed. "
Person must be firstborn, or get firstborn right before the Messiah come from e family?		Was the line to the Messiah tied to the right of firstborn?
Plenty people no de even look them. But they continue to stand there, and de smile with the people wey de look them.		Most people ignore them, but the couple remain in their spot, smiling at those who look at them.
Rutherford show the 6,000 people wey come the convention wetin " GA " mean.		Rutherford finally unveiled the mystery for the 6,000 conventioners.
Small time, Rehoboam go show whether e really get the sense, like Solomon, to solve one big problem.		How could Rehoboam foresee that soon his own ability to resolve complex issues would be tested?
So, dem tell us sey make we go back to our country. E pain me. But as time dey go, I come well.		I needed some time to regain my strength, but once I did, we again took up the full - time service.
So, this one suppose make us respect dem and even praise dem for wetin dem dey do. - Ps.		Whether they realize it or not, they reflect to some extent 's glory, and for this reason, they deserve a measure of honor and respect. - Ps.
So if we want be mature Christian, make we de work hard to learn more things and get deep sense.		Growing to maturity involves advancing to an increased level of knowledge and insight.
Sometimes when new government come, the language wey people dey speak fit change.		Political developments have sometimes influenced which language was the lingua franca, or common language, at any given time.
TThis two topic talk about the time wey God people dey with fake religion and wetin anointed Christian do for 1870 to understand Bible well.		These articles explain when God 's people came into Babylonian captivity and what efforts anointed Christians made in the late 1800 ' s to understand 's Word correctly.
That kind friend dey?		Do you have such a close friend?
That time e dey very special and e still dey special today.		Gloria was a jewel then, and she is a jewel today.
The ' other sheep ' dey see am as better chance to help their brothers wey God use im spirit choose for this work.		The " other sheep " count it a privilege to help their anointed brothers in this ministry.
The way the congregation help the woman and im pikin sweet im husband well well.		Her husband was so impressed by the way the congregation proved to be a refuge for her and the baby that he accepted a Bible study and began to attend meetings with his wife and child.
Think am: Bible call all the fake religion for this world one name - Babylon the Great.		Consider: Babylon the Great is the world empire of false religion.
This na because the Law come from the Person wey im like pass, and this Person na im Father.		That Law came from the most important Person in Jesus ' life - his Father,.
This new magazine The Golden Age, " a Journal of Fact, Hope, and Conviction " go give the brothers new way to take teach Bible - house to house preaching wey dem go ask people if dem go like get the magazine every month.		The Golden Age, " a Journal of Fact, Hope, and Conviction, " would be used to open up a new method of spreading the truth - a door - to - door subscription campaign.
This one still show sey na im suppose tell us wetin we go dey do.		So when we choose to obey his command to attend meetings, we show him that we love him and that we believe he has the right to tell us what to do.
This work wey dem do for Ghana, help dem. E help dem because even when dem go United States again, dem still dey put God work as the first thing for their life.		Though they had to return to the United States, the experience of serving in Ghana deepened their desire to keep Kingdom interests first in life.
To and Jesus, to dey forgive na serious matter.		and Jesus take forgiveness very seriously.
We go still learn how the advice for Bible go help us settle quarrel, live well with our neighbor, and make our Friend.		In addition, it will refer to Scriptural principles that can help them to deal with conflict and maintain good relations with their neighbor and with God.
Wetin be some things wey we fit do to show sey we dey follow am?		What are some practical ways that we can follow it?
Wetin fit help us? E sey make we get faith, dey learn about God, dey endure, and make we use all our mind serve God. - Read 2 Peter 1: 5 - 8.		The apostle Peter explained that we can avoid becoming inactive in our service if we keep supplying to our faith knowledge, endurance, and godly devotion. - Read 2 Peter 1: 5 - 8.
Wetin go help people wey don marry make their marriage last?		How can a Christian couple make their marriage a lasting union?
Wetin make correct some people wey e use lead?		Why did discipline some of the leaders of his people?
When the things wey you dey learn for Bible dey your mind, you go want teach your family.		When your heart is filled with Bible truth, you will want to discuss it with your family.
Which people go remain when wicked people no dey again, and why that one be better news?		Who will remain in place of wicked people, and why is that good news?
Why we talk like that?		Why can we be so confident?
Yes, but we must fight well well.		Yes, but not without a struggle.
wey dey October 8, 2003 Awake!		which appeared in the issue of October 8, 2003.
That kind thing still dey happen today. Sometimes, brothers for congregation dey quarrel because when dem do business together and dem lose money, dem fit dey think sey the other brother play dem wayo.		At times, peace among spiritual brothers has been disrupted because a failed business venture led to loss of money and perhaps to accusations of fraud.
Even though sey their papa na High Priest for tabernacle, the two pikin dey do things wey bad well well.		Though their father played a key role in promoting true worship, his two sons committed very serious sins.
But for now, wetin we want na make continue to dey bless im people more more.		In the meantime, we hope for the continued increase of the spiritual prosperity of God 's people.
Na only fit control imself finish.		possesses self - control in perfect measure.
But Jesus tell Peter say: " Keep your sword back for e place, because any person wey e de carry sword, na sword go kill the person. "		But Jesus told Peter: " Return your sword to its place, for all those who take up the sword will perish by the sword. "
And e no fit still do anything about im condition.		And there was likely little she could do to improve her financial situation.
So, e good make we no just believe everything wey person tell us. Make we first think am well. ( Prov.		Media and Society in the Twentieth Century ) So never be content passively or blindly to accept what you hear.
And this one dey make us get hope to get life wey no go end. - Jude 21.		As a result, we " keep [ ourselves ] in God 's love. with everlasting life in view. " - Jude 21.
Elders fit still tell papa and mama, and their children make dem join do work for Kingdom Hall.		Yes, positive words and encouragement can have a long - lasting effect.
Wetin e no do well?		In what way did he fall short?
All the better better things wey David get na from. - Check 1 Corinthians 4: 7.		David knew that he did not possess anything good that he had not received from. - Compare 1 Corinthians 4: 7.
E still talk better thing about Titus. E sey na im partner and person wey dey follow am work to help the brothers. ( 2 Cor.		The apostle commended Titus to the Corinthian congregation as " my companion and a fellow worker for your interests. "
Because we no dey fit do wetin God want without mistake, na im make Bible talk sey all of us ' don sin and we no fit reach God glory. ' - Rom.		Being imperfect, all of us " have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. " - Rom.
If to sey you dey there, wetin you for do?		If you had been there, how would you have responded?
Gal. 5: 22 ) And when we get joy, we go fit bear the problem wey we get.		And when we develop joy, we are better able to cope with the stresses of life.
Professor Yosef Garfinkel wey dey among the people wey see this pot, talk sey: ' E good to know sey na for only King David time Bible talk about this name wey be Eshba 'al and now, this pot wey we see support wetin Bible talk. '		Professor Yosef Garfinkel, who participated in the excavation, observes: " It is interesting to note that the name Eshba 'al appears in the Bible, and now also in the archaeological record, only during the reign of King David. "
Adolfo sey e happy the way im life take change.		Adolfo says he is happy for the changes he has been able to make.
After one hour, e come call the brother again tell am sey as dem never see before, e go good if dem fit meet to settle the matter.		An hour later, he called again, mentioning that they had not yet met, and he suggested that they resolve the issues together.
All of dem don happen.		They have all come true for you.
All the things wey e make fine finish, comma no dey. ( Gen.		Everything he creates meets the highest standards.
And wetin fit help us continue to know where we suppose do reach even if e hard?		And how can we cultivate this desirable quality, so that we remain modest even under pressure?
And when e don see am, make e no just relax.		Be not content with one flower of truth.
Another thing be sey we fit help dem get better work or house.		Also, could we direct them to local agencies that may help them to obtain suitable housing or employment?
Another way to show sey you really believe wetin talk and you get strong mind, na to help your pikin serve like you. - 1 Sam.		Then an added way that you can demonstrate courage and reliance on is by helping your child to do the same. - 1 Sam.
As I dey there, I go meet Dr.		While there, I visited Dr.
As time dey go, new new work wey organization dey give me, come dey help me learn new things and na so I dey change follow am.		As time went by, new assignments prompted me to make more adjustments.
Before ten years reach, people go destroy Jerusalem.		Yes, the violent end of the Jewish system of things would come in less than a decade.
But, how people wey don dey serve well tey tey fit help new ones?		But how can mature Christians help newer ones to make spiritual advancement?
But, make we sofri so that enjoyment no go come be the main thing for our life.		However, the danger exists that having a good time could become the primary focus of our life.
But Asa try do wetin like and e use all im life serve am. ( 1 Chron. 28: 9, ftn. )		Yet, Asa basically did not deviate from God 's ways, for his heart was " completely devoted " to God.
But e hard am to find the part - time work wey e need.		However, the part - time job she needed did not come easily.
But how Josiah for take know sey na tell Necho wetin e talk?		How, though, would Josiah know that Necho 's words were from?
But wetin we know be sey, because Hezekiah don begin raise shoulder, e no come show sey e like wetin do for am.		In any case, because Hezekiah was haughty, he " did not respond appreciatively to the good done to him. "
Dem worry dem for 15 years. God people first stand their ground, but later dem come dey draw body comot for the work.		Although they initially took a firm stand, 15 years of hostility took their toll.
Dey do family worship and personal study as you dey do before.		Maintain your good habits of family worship and personal study.
Douglas Guest die for October 25, 2015, when we still dey prepare to put this story for magazine. E serve well till e die.		While this article was being prepared for publication, Douglas Guest died faithful to on October 25, 2015.
E fit still be sey the people for Meroz get chance to take catch Sisera, but dem no do am.		Ten thousand people from their region had been assembled for this offensive.
E good make we let our Bible student carry this one for mind.		We do well to help Bible students grasp that fact.
E show say plenty benefit dey when we de treat people with respect. One of this benefit na peace.		Indeed, treating others with respect yields many fine benefits - including peace.
E still dey use our book, meeting, assembly, and convention dey help us.		He also helps us through our Bible - based publications, Christian meetings, assemblies, and conventions.
E talk sey: " If you want enjoy preaching well well, make you join congregation wey dey speak another country language.		She says: " If you want an exciting ministry, serving in a foreign - language congregation is for you.
E think about wetin e read from Bible and e do am. E still put ear for the advice wey brothers and sisters give am.		He meditated on and applied Bible principles, and he accepted the help and counsel offered by fellow Christians.
Even if things don be like that, for many many years after Jesus time, many people still dey read Bible for Greek or Latin language.		Still, for the first few centuries of our Common Era, many people could read the Bible in either Greek or Latin.
Even today, we dey sure sey still want make we dey treat people wey come from another place well, when dem come our congregation. ( Deut.		Today, we can be sure that is equally concerned about people from a foreign background who attend meetings in our congregations.
FOR apostle time, many people hear the ' good news about God Kingdom. ' Christians that time really put body for the work. ( Matt.		FIRST - CENTURY Christians made great efforts to reach as many people as possible with the " good news of the Kingdom. "
For 2008, dem go Ghana go preach and e pass three years wey dem stay there.		In 2008 they moved to Ghana and served there for more than three years.
For example, e easy for person to do wetin good when e dey vex?		For example, what might happen if we make decisions when we are angry?
For this last days, people hate each other well well.		The present world is often a hostile environment.
From wetin apostle Paul talk, who need person to encourage am?		What did the apostle Paul state about encouragement?
How our hope fit help us make we no too worry?		How does hope have the power to reduce anxiety?
How we go take get the kind faith wey Job get?		How we cultivate faith like Job 's.
I Don Gain Because I Make Friend With Wise People ( W.		Endurance Under Trial Results in Blessings ( P.
I come start to talk bad things about am to the other person. I no know sey e never cut am. ' - MICHAEL.		I then said unkind things about him to the other person on the phone, but the first person had not hung up. " - MICHAEL.
I no get the book, but I like to get am.		I did not have that book, but I wanted one.
If dey give this bird food, we fit trust am sey e go give us wetin we need. - Ps.		If he continues to feed the ravens, you can trust that will provide your material necessities too. - Ps.
If we dey learn from people mistake, e go help us make we no do the same mistake.		This is also true of our spiritual course.
If we know where we suppose do reach, we no go do wetin go vex other people for congregation, and this one go make congregation get one mind.		Modesty restrains us from acting dishonorably, and it promotes unity among 's people.
If you come back, I go break your two leg. "		If you come back, I will break your legs. "
Instead, e sofri start to dey do the work wey dem give am, even though im position no come high as before.		If so, what lessons can we learn from the account?
Instead of the brother to vex, e just dey smile as e dey put the tea back for the packet.		Rather than reprimand her, he cheerfully put the tea back in its place.
angel warn Joseph sey King Herod want kill Jesus. Joseph come carry Jesus and Mary go live refugee life for Egypt.		After 's angel warned Joseph that King Herod intended to kill Jesus, young Jesus and his parents became refugees in Egypt.
don promise Abraham before sey na through im pikin e go bless the whole earth. ( Gen.		had promised that through Abraham 's offspring all nations would be blessed.
go dey show us im favor even when this wicked world no dey again.		s undeserved kindness will reach beyond the end of the present wicked system of things.
Jesus go make us clean from all sin. " ( 1 John 1: 7 ) And if our mind still dey worry us, when we read the place for Bible wey talk sey " God know our mind pass us, " this one go make our mind come down.		And if our heart continues to condemn us, do we not get a lump in our throat and tears of gratitude in our eyes when we read that " God is greater than our hearts "?
Jesus no get sin for body, na im make am fit die for everybody and comot dem from sin.		As a perfect man, Jesus could save humankind from sin and death by dying in their behalf.
Like Jesus disciple that time, we dey gather together to learn so that we go dey strong.		Just like Jesus ' early followers, we meet together to learn and to be encouraged.
Make dem continue to teach their children by theirself.		They must monitor the help given by companions and continue to teach their children themselves.
Make e still dey find more.		Gather ever, seek for more. "
Make we no take this matter play.		Let each of us please his neighbor for his good, to build him up, " wrote Paul.
Na im make Joseph no want make people know sey im be Jesus disciple.		Doing so would mean losing his position and his prestige.
Na so God still dey give you im ' right hand wey good '.		God is offering his " right hand of righteousness " to you too.
Na so The Watch Tower for September 1, 1915 take write about wetin happen for world war one wey about 30 country join fight.		Thus The Watch Tower of September 1, 1915, described the first world war, which eventually engulfed about 30 countries.
Na so e dey be for some kind country wey e be sey na the government dey control the news people.		This is especially true in countries where the news is controlled by the government.
Na there I see Janette, one sister wey love. We come marry and we born one boy and three girls. We train dem to fit serve.		There I met and married Janette, a fine Christian sister, and we raised a son and three daughters in the Christian way.
Na wetin happen to one sister be that. E talk sey: ' I feel sey one sister dey use small pikin eye look me.		Consider the experience of one Witness: " I felt that one sister was treating me as if I were a child.
No wonder people dey always remember that convention; dem never do that kind convention before!		No wonder that this 1922 Cedar Point, Ohio, convention has gone down in history as a theocratic milestone!
One of dem name na Eunice Colin.		One was Eunice Colin.
People come even dey use some things wey dem write for the Bible, when dem dey speak English.		It became one of the most popular English Bibles, and it would come to have a significant impact on the English language.
People don tell you before sey, na wetin science talk make dem believe sey life just start by imself? Or, you no suppose believe sey God dey because you never see am before?		Have people said to you that they believe in evolution because it is based on science whereas belief in God is based on faith?
People wey no be Witness fit gain well well from the things wey dey our website.		Much of the material in print and on our website is prepared with the non - Witness public in mind.
Plenty people go gather to remember Jesus death for their area when time reach. And we know sey this one go make and Jesus happy.		Each year, this observance is the most amazing unifying event that takes place on planet Earth!
Saul example show us sey, if e dey our character to dey do oversabi, one day one day we go do wetin God no like.		But as King Saul 's example illustrates, if we develop a pattern of pushing ahead, sooner or later we will find ourselves in serious trouble with God.
Some of the things wey dey happen to me don happen to am before. As I hear im story, e come make me feel sey I no dey alone. "		She also shared with me her own experience with the kind of test I was going through, and I felt less alone. "
Sometimes, the money wey we dey spend dey plenty pass wetin people dey contribute.		At times, this resulted in more money going out than coming in for a period of time.
Sometimes, we fit feel sey wetin we dey do for no reach anything. Or we fit dey wonder whether like wetin we dey do for am.		At times, we may feel that we are accomplishing little, or we might wonder whether is pleased with our efforts.
The kind contribution wey you fit send for the country wey you dey fit be:		Depending on local conditions, the types of donations that you can send directly may include:
The way dey think fit help us do wetin go make am happy.		Consider an example that shows how knowledge of 's thinking can help us to make wise decisions.
This kind thing fit still happen if woman dey take tablet make e no get belle. But e dey hard for this kind thing to happen.		However, instances of such " failed " implantations are thought to be rare, even as seems to be the case occasionally with oral contraceptive pills.
This kind thing no dey make family happy.		Obviously, such conduct cannot contribute to a happy family life.
This one go help you know person wey ready to change and person wey dey pretend.		See how the Scriptures portray both repentant and unrepentant ones.
This topic go show us how we fit let the things wey Bible talk help us when we get quarrel with person.		This article shows how Bible principles can be applied in order to settle differences with others.
True true, e need better friend.		Yes, David needed a real friend.
We come fit put mind for the better things wey we dey see for our work.		We were able to focus on the joys that our service was bringing us.
We come go dey stay near Hollywood wey dey Florida, near my husband family.		We eventually settled in Hollywood, Florida, near Walter 's family.
We go talk about two area for life, wey we need to get strong mind. ( 1 ) For our family and ( 2 ) for congregation.		Let us consider two areas of life where we need courage: in our family and in the congregation.
Wetin don give us to make our faith strong?		What provisions do we have to strengthen our faith?
Wetin Lucy read for Matthew 6: 1 - 4 ( Read am. ), help am.		Lucy was encouraged by reading Matthew 6: 1 - 4.
Wetin dem dey learn for meeting no dey touch their mind because dem no really dey understand.		Because of not fully understanding what was said at the meetings, the children were not really touched by the spiritual program that was being presented at the Kingdom Hall.
Wetin e learn from the book come make am start to study Bible with Witness. But e take time before e fit stop to look things wey dey show naked people.		What he learned moved him to study the Bible with 's, but it took him a long time to break his bad habit.
Wetin make am good?		Why is this important?
Wetin make me believe sey e go better for me if I dey always do wetin Bible talk? ' - Isa.		What convinces me that Bible standards are always for my own good? ' - Isa.
Wetin show sey we better pass bird?		What proves that we are worth more than the birds of heaven?
Wetin some young people don do to fit preach more?		How have some young Christians shared more fully in making disciples?
When I see how take dey direct our preaching work, e dey make me near am more more. "		The more I see how directs matters, the more I desire to draw closer to him. "
When dem first start to pray, to talk dey hard. But as dem dey pray dey go, their voice go dey strong more more, and their prayer dey really come from their mind.		They start praying, often battling to speak at first, but every time, within a few sentences, their voice gets stronger and they say the most heartfelt prayer.
Why e be sey many young people dey like preach?		Why do many young people enjoy making disciples?
Why e be sey na serious matter to think about wetin we dey put for our mind?		Why is what we set our mind on a serious issue?
Why e hard for some people to leave work for young people?		Why is it difficult for some to delegate authority?
Why you ready to do everything wey you fit do to make sure sey you get wetin God promise?		Why are you resolved to keep your eyes on the prize?
Yes, Adam and Eve fit continue to enjoy their work and learn many new things.		For the first human pair, the possibilities for satisfying work, accomplishment, and discovery were endless.
You fit dey around 13 to 19 years, and you fit dey feel sey your papa and mama no dey give you chance to do wetin you want.		What if you are a teenager and feel misunderstood and restricted by your Christian parents?
You fit dey fear sey your pikin fit be like some brothers and sisters for Ephesus wey Jesus talk about. Jesus talk sey dem " forget the love wey [ dem ] first get. " ( Rev.		He or she might become like those in the first - century congregation in Ephesus of whom Jesus said: " You have left the love you had at first. "
You fit join hand make this peace continue, if you de try to get this fruit, or character, wey holy spirit de produce.		You will add to that peace as you work to develop this aspect of the spirit 's fruitage in your life.
You fit no know anybody wey bad like Asa grandmama. But something fit happen wey fit make you do like Asa.		You probably do not know anyone who acts just like her, but there may be a situation in which you can imitate Asa 's zeal.
You must ready to carry yourself down and allow direct you. If you dey carry body down, e go make people dey respect you.		Such humble submission earns them respect and gives them freeness of speech when training or correcting others.
You no sure sey this one make their faith strong pass before? - 2 Chron.		What a faith - strengthening occasion that must have been! - 2 Chron.
Your friend fit still learn from your fine character.		And no doubt your good conduct will encourage your friends.
talk about that verse well well. If you dey study this book with your pikin or Bible student, you go see sey chapter 3, 5, and 6 talk about am. You fit don use am talk about why God make the earth, wetin the ransom be, and wetin dey happen to person wey don die.		As you study this book with your children or others, you will likely read Romans 5: 12 when you discuss God 's purpose for the earth, the ransom, and the condition of the dead - chapters 3, 5, and 6.
Some work wey we fit dey do na: to build and repair Kingdom Hall, Assembly Hall and branch office; to join do work for assembly or convention; or to go help for branch office or remote translation office.		Such work may include the construction and maintenance of facilities for worship, volunteering to assist at assemblies and conventions, or caring for assignments at a branch office or a remote translation office.
But, e let am come because e love us well well.		He values humanity so highly that he was willing to let his only - begotten Son die in our behalf.
How e take show sey value person life?		What do they teach us about his view of life?
How young people fit handle this matter well?		How can Christian youths best meet this challenge?
So, I come sey make dem put my name among people wey no go join military.		I appealed to the draft board to be classified as a minister.
Jesus know sey no be and im people make Judas and Peter do wetin dem do.		Jesus knew that those actions were not the fault of or his people in general.
All this one show sey, no dey waste time to help you.		Have you not seen that is swift to provide you with his guidance?
Wetin Psalm 136 talk wey fit make our mind come down?		What assurance do we find in Psalm 136?
Lije, wey we talk about before, with im brothers and sisters, remember wetin their papa teach dem about faith when dem dey run.		Lije, quoted earlier, and his siblings remember the lessons of faith their father taught them even as they were fleeing.
Around which time we fit talk sey dem write Psalm 147?		Apparently, when was Psalm 147 written?
Mal. 3: 12 ) Even though sey Mary and Joseph newly marry, dem no sleep with each other until Mary born Jesus.		Note, too, that she and Joseph, although newly married, refrained from sexual relations until Jesus was born.
Like Paul, how we fit show sey we like preaching well well?		How can we demonstrate such love for the ministry?
Acts 24: 15 ) Make we de put mind for the hope wey we get, if we want make e protect us. We must wear this " helmet " for head, no be for hand we go hold - am.		But if we want our " helmet " to be effective, we must wear it on our head, not carry it in our hand.
The people wey follow wetin talk, live life wey better pass slave life for Babylon.		Those who submitted to the will of God lived a relatively normal life in Babylon.
The mark no be ordinary mark wey person fit see.		They received a symbolic mark for survival.
The kind person wey we really be go show for the things wey we dey do.		Vain sentiments in our hearts will eventually show up in our actions.
All this gift de give us power so that we go continue to preach. - Jas.		These gifts from strengthen us to keep on bearing fruit. - Jas.
And e go still show sey we no dey take play because e dey forgive our sin.		Earnest actions to abandon a sinful course show that we are not complacent, that we have not presumed on his mercy.
Anything wey we choose fit affect us.		Every choice we make will likely affect our relationship with - either for good or for bad.
As I come learn wetin dey Bible, I no gree do that kind work again, even though sey dem dey pay me better money for the company.		When I learned the truth, I refused to continue doing that, even though the job paid very well.
Because the brothers for there treat Dannykarl well, e come help am near more more.		He continued to experience expressions of kindness, which helped him to make spiritual progress.
Bible no tell us how the matter take end, but we dey sure sey this sisters follow apostle Paul advice. - Phil.		The Bible does not tell us the outcome, but these sisters may have responded well to the apostle Paul 's loving counsel. - Phil.
But even with all this one, I no put hand for politics and I no become sister for church.		Despite these two strong influences, I became neither a Nazi nor a nun.
But now, I de prepare before I go meeting, and I de try answer two or three question.		Now, though, I prepare for the meetings and try to answer two or three times.
But that one show better sense?		Really, though, does that reflect practical wisdom?
But the truth be sey, plenty people for this world like money and the things wey money fit buy.		Though not many would be so open about the matter, the world is full of people who love money and the things it can buy.
But what if person wey don marry and wey don baptize run comot with another person husband or wife, come marry this person after e don end im first marriage?		But suppose a baptized married man or woman ran off with another person 's mate and married that one after obtaining a divorce.
Dem be angels. And e be like sey dem dey different different group.		The riders of the chariots are angels, likely groups or divisions of angels.
Dem drive me, my mama and my junior brother wey im name na Grigory comot from West Ukraine.		Together with my mother and my younger brother, Grigory, I was banished from West Ukraine.
Dem really help me well well. Dem help me see sey I go happy if I put God Kingdom first for my life.		They showed me how putting the Kingdom first gives real meaning and joy to one 's life.
Dem talk sey person wey im work na to copy book, go use ten months take write only one Bible!		It has been said that it would take ten months for a skilled copyist to produce just one handwritten copy of the Bible!
Dem tell Michael and im family sey dem be Witness.		They had heard of the crisis from others on the bus.
E dey do wetin e talk.		Rather, he is always faithful, consistent, loyal, and true.
E dey respect and support other people wey give work for congregation.		At the same time, he sincerely respects the role or place that has given to others.
E fit be sey dem dey feel sey other people better pass dem, maybe because dem no too go school or get money; or e fit still be how dem take train dem.		Because of their upbringing or social status, they may feel inferior to those of another race or nationality.
E get two other brothers wey dey work for there, their name na Robert Wallen and Charles Molohan.		Two other brothers already working in the same office were Robert Wallen and Charles Molohan.
E good make we know sey people go love us when we dey ' quiet and we no dey make trouble. ' No be when we dey make mouth or dey do " notice me. "		We realize that we win people 's hearts, not by boasting or drawing undue attention to ourselves, but by displaying a " quiet and mild spirit. "
E know wetin e fit do and wetin e no fit do.		Humility greatly pleases.
E make dem know sey e trust dem. Na im make e give dem one big work wey dem go do.		He confirmed his trust in them by giving them instructions about the most important educational work in human history.
E no want make you scatter your marriage because of that one. ( 1 Cor.		Your mate 's present unwillingness to follow Christ is not in itself a valid reason for separation or divorce.
Even if e be like that, make young men for congregation dey patient if dem never give dem more work.		On the other hand, those who are younger must guard against becoming impatient when they are not given more to do.
Even self, some elders or ministerial servants for that area dey keep beard beard.		In fact, some appointed brothers have beards.
For example, we fit talk sey, " Make we see wetin God talk about this matter. "		For example, we might say, " Let 's see what our Creator says on this topic. "
God Kingdom na wetin Jesus disciple suppose dey put as the first thing for their life.		Christ 's disciples must always make the Kingdom their first concern in life.
God don promise us sey e go use Jesus bring people wey don die come life again. But before that time reach, make we do everything to make our faith for strong.		In the meantime, we should bolster our faith in, who through Jesus assured us that the dead in God 's memory will rise.
Governing Body fit do mistake. So, dem fit change things wey we believe and the way dem dey direct matter.		Therefore, it can err in doctrinal matters or in organizational direction.
How take show sey e hate wetin Ahab do, and why this one come make Naboth family and im friend mind come down?		How did show that he is a lover of justice, and why would this have been of comfort to Naboth 's relatives and friends?
How this example concern our preaching work?		How does the account of the jailer relate to our preaching work?
If papa or mama sey make you dey study Bible with their children, abeg, no chance dem for their work.		If a parent decides to have someone study with the children, the one who does so should not try to take over the role of the parents.
If you know well, how e go take help you choose better friend and wetin you go use enjoy yourself?		How does accurate knowledge of and of his standards help us in choosing good associates and wholesome entertainment?
If your cloth dirty and e dey smell, wetin you go do?		What would you do if your clothing became dirty, perhaps even having a foul odor?
Im name mean ' E Dey Make Anything Be. ' ( Ex.		His very name is understood to mean " He Causes to Become. "
Instead, e pray to to help am know how e fit preach to other people wey dey wait like am.		Instead, she prayed to see how she might be of spiritual help to others experiencing similar frustration.
no want make you park leave your husband or wife because e no gree join you serve am.		Nevertheless, it is important for you to view your situation as does.
Jeroboam come from Ephraim tribe and na im be the first king wey rule the ten - tribe kingdom wey dey north for Israel. Na Ephraim come many pass and get power pass other tribe. ( Deut. 33: 13, 17; 1 Ki.		The first king of the northern ten - tribe kingdom, Jeroboam, was from the tribe of Ephraim, which had become the dominant tribe.
Jesus ' talk sey: " See!		Paul wrote: " [ Jesus ] says: ' Look!
Jesus come tell am wetin go make am no fear again. E tell am sey: ' No fear, my pikin! '		To put the woman at ease, Jesus kindly said: " Take courage, daughter! "
Jesus no fear to ask im disciple wetin dem believe. ( Matt.		Jesus was not afraid to ask his followers what they believed.
Jesus use im life do wetin im Father want.		Jesus ' whole life revolved around doing his Father 's will.
Joyce Ellis ( wey be Joyce Barber, before e marry ) remember wetin happen that time. E sey: ' Many brothers come really know sey dem need to pioneer. '		A lot of the brothers were waking up to the fact that they needed to pioneer, " remembers Joyce Ellis ( ne Barber ).
LIFE no easy this days.		WE LIVE in very stressful times.
Later dem come make Livija special pioneer.		A few years later, Livija was appointed to be a special pioneer.
Make e bless you because you make me no kill people today. ' - 1 Sam.		May you be blessed for restraining me this day from incurring bloodguilt. " - 1 Sam.
Make we continue to support as our King.		We could become so absorbed in the demands of our day - to - day life that we forget just how important the vindication of God 's sovereignty really is.
Make we dey praise dem for the better work wey dem dey do.		We can and should commend them for their hard work and strive to cooperate with directions that they provide.
Make we see another example.		How can you determine if a certain style of clothing is pleasing to?
Many government today know sey we no dey put hand for politics and war. But as we dey near the end of this wicked world, dem fit come force us to join.		Although many governments today allow us to be neutral, we can expect them to be less willing to do so as we get closer to the end.
Maybe e don happen to you before.		You likely can understand why.
Na 17 years e dey. E baptize before e reach 13 years.		That is a comment made by Olivia, who is 17 and who got baptized as a preteen.
Na about 150 people go this convention. Even though sey dem no many, wetin make am dey special?		But what made this convention, attended by only about 150 people, so noteworthy?
Na holy spirit dem take write Bible.		Remember: Joy is fueled by God 's spirit.
Na the Jews God first give im message. ( Rom.		The first 39 books of the Bible were written by Israelites, or the Jews.
Na true sey we get sin for body because we be Adam and Eve children. Because of this one, we dey make mistake sometimes.		True, because of the imperfection we inherited from our first parents, we are affected by wrong desires.
Na wetin make tell us sey make we ' do everything wey we fit do ' to get the kind character wey e like.		Thus, tells us to put forth " earnest effort " in developing godly qualities.
No matter how you want take contribute, abeg first ask the branch office wey dey your country to know how you go do am.		Regardless of the method or methods you would like to use, please first contact the branch office that serves your branch territory to see which avenues are available.
Now e don go.		Now he was gone.
One day, one old man come our house. E name na Fred Hardaker. Na Witness, and e be doctor.		One day, Fred Hardaker, an elderly doctor who was one of 's, called at our home.
One man wey study Greek language talk about this Greek word wey dey Romans 8: 5. E sey the people wey the place dey talk about na ' people wey too like the things wey the flesh want, wey dey always talk about am, and to do am dey sweet dem reach bone. '		One scholar says about that word at Romans 8: 5: " They set their minds on - are most deeply interested in, constantly talk about, engage and glory in - the things pertaining to the flesh. "
One thing wey Boaz do be sey, e tell Ruth make e stay with the women wey dey work for am so that the men no go disturb am.		For one thing, he invited her to stay with his group of young women so that she would not be harassed by the men who were working in the field.
Papa and mama wey dey serve dey show sey dem hold tight if dem dey use Bible train their pikin.		Christian parents display loyalty to by training their children according to his Word.
Prophet Isaiah talk about the time when the Jew people wey dey Babylon go repent and talk sey: ', na you be our Papa.		The prophet Isaiah pointed to the time at the end of the Jewish exile when repentant ones would realize: " O, you are our Father.
SERGIO AND OLINDA na husband and wife, and them de live for United States. They don pass 80 years, but still de pioneer together.		SERGIO AND OLINDA are a pioneer couple in their 80 ' s who live in the United States.
Sara talk sey: " Three years pass and nothing - nothing, but I thank wey help me bear am. "		Three long years passed, but thanks to, I was able to endure, " says Sara.
See wetin happen when Paul and Barnabas dey Antioch for Pisidia.		Consider what happened when Paul and Barnabas were at Antioch in Pisidia.
Since we want make God spirit dey direct us, make we talk about people wey show better example.		But since our goal is to grow as spiritual people, let us take a look at several positive examples of individuals we can imitate.
So, if we no want ' do pass ourself as we dey follow God waka, ' we go live our life the way want and show sey we respect the way other people dey feel.		Therefore, we ' walk in modesty with God ' by conforming our lives to his elevated standards and showing respect for other people 's sensitivities.
So e good make we get our brothers for mind. This one go make us fit encourage dem when dem need am.		We should, therefore, be increasingly interested in our brothers, so that we can encourage them whenever needed.
So make we welcome dem no matter their hairstyle or the kind cloth wey dem wear. ( Jas.		Why not take the initiative to welcome these new ones, no matter how they may be dressed or groomed?
Some mistake big pass some.		Some mistakes are more serious than others.
Some of dem na Abel, Enoch, Noah and im family.		Among them were Abel, Enoch, and Noah and his family.
Some people wey put mind for science to help dem find the answer don confuse.		When looking to science to determine whether life was created, a person can easily get lost in a fog of information.
Stephanie talk sey, " I read different different topic for Watchtower wey talk how person fit go preach for where dem need more publisher.		I did research in Watchtower articles related to serving where the need is greater, " says Stephanie.
That time we be like ' slave for things wey no clean and things wey no dey law. '		We were like " slaves to uncleanness and lawlessness. "
The Catholic sisters no even advise me sey mek I be missionary, as I get for mind before.		The nuns did not encourage me to serve God in another country, as I had hoped for.
The trust wey Jesus get for and im people no shake that time and even now.		Jesus ' confidence in and his people was well - founded and still is.
Think about wetin the verse talk, when e sey: ' Na from one man sin enter this world, and na sin cause death, na im make everybody dey die because all of dem don sin. '		Think about how often you have referred to the statement: " Just as through one man sin entered into the world and death through sin, and so death spread to all men because they had all sinned. "
This one really bad!		How sad!
Thomas know sey e need to dey patient to fit teach im pikin.		As Thomas knows, teaching takes patience.
Use Bible well for your talk		Make the Scriptures the backbone of your talk
WE DE live for world wey trouble dey plenty. Na e make we must try our best so that we go get peace.		BECAUSE we live in a troubled world, we must work hard to gain peace.
We and fit be tight friend because of wetin Jesus do. E die for us make we get life wey no go end.		Such a relationship is possible only " by means of Christ Jesus, " who offered his life as a ransom sacrifice.
We dey use technology dey do some things for the work and new technology dey come out every day.		As we tackle new projects, new ways of doing things are adopted - often ways that involve the use of rapidly changing technology.
We know sey children like to play.		As a child, he no doubt played and had fun.
Wetin Psalm 118: 22 talk about Jesus resurrection?		How did Psalm 118: 22 point to Jesus ' resurrection?
Wetin be some of the law wey dey Bible, and wetin we don gain as we dey do dem?		What are some examples of Bible laws, and how does obeying them benefit us?
Wetin go make me sey no for that kind thing?		How could I refuse such a privilege?
Wetin we go do so that we go fit dey praise with song from our heart?		How can you overcome obstacles and sing praises to with feeling?
Wetin we need to know about this wahala?		How should we view family opposition?
Wetin you promise before you baptize ( Check paragraph 10 )		Dedication vow ( See paragraph 10 )
When I dey do things with my brothers and sisters, I dey feel for dem and I dey patient with dem?		Ask yourself: ' Am I moved to apply what Jesus taught? Do I show patience and understanding to my fellow servants?
When I go American Sign Language ( ASL ) pioneer school, that time I dey 79 years		Attending American Sign Language ( ASL ) pioneer school at age 79
When Jesus sey ' this world property, ' e no tell us why e talk like that. But Bible let us know sey when make human being, e no get am for mind make dem dey do business to make money.		Although Jesus does not explain why he calls riches " unrighteous, " the Bible makes clear that commercialism was not part of God 's purpose.
When e ring the bell of the house, na one woman come out. The woman come dey curse Toi, dey shout for am sey e no quick come take care of im mama.		The woman insulted Toi and berated her for not arriving earlier to care for the woman 's elderly mother.
When new publishers start to preach, dem need to know sey dem no need to tire to go check people.		As they preach the Kingdom message, new publishers need to learn that perseverance is sometimes necessary.
When you dey talk with other people, e good make you use the things wey dey for your language ( Check paragraph 5 )		As you reason with others, make good use of the tools available in your language ( See paragraph 5 )
Which kind bad character you go run from make you no come be like clay wey don dry?		What traits should you avoid so that you are not hard or inflexible?
Why e good make we do everything wey we fit do so that we go dey do things like and Jesus?		Why should we not ignore our weaknesses?
Why we talk like that?		How is that so?
You dey wait for the time wey you go hold dem, talk to dem, and laugh with dem again.		You long to hug, to speak with, and to laugh with that dear one.
Your heavy hand come dey ontop me, for daytime and for night. "		For day and night your hand was heavy upon me. "
E dey sweet and na correct thing to praise Jah! ' - PS.		How pleasant and fitting it is to praise him! " - PS.
People wey dey use their life do wetin the spirit want, dey put their mind for the things wey concern the spirit. ' - ROM.		Those who live according to the spirit, [ set their minds ] on the things of the spirit. " - ROM.
E fit be say na so plenty tax collector de do.		His course was probably typical of that of many.
But the people wey go resurrect go learn wetin e mean to follow wetin Bible talk for their life.		Of course, those resurrected will be required to learn how to apply the godly principles that are found in the Bible.
Because God use Adam rib make the first woman, wetin fit don dey their mind?		What could the first man and woman have realized about marriage?
Wetin make no continue to vex for Hezekiah and im people?		Why was Hezekiah spared from God 's indignation?
Which time Adam use im freedom well?		Describe one way that Adam exercised his free will.
The name wey dem give Daniel mean Bel wey be the main juju for Babylon.		The name given to Daniel referred to Bel, the main divinity of Babylon.
Dey Pity People and Judge Well Like		Imitate 's Justice and Mercy
Which thing never fit make us stop to " shine like light "?		What obstacle does not prevent us from " shining as illuminators "?
As God take raise the boy wey don die come life, this one help us know sey, true true, God get power to bring people wey don die come life again.		Clearly, God in a very literal way raised up the boy in Shunem, proving His ability to resurrect.
So, the love wey people wey don dey old get, suppose make dem dey train young men to do more work for congregation. - Read Psalm 71: 18.		Thus, it is both loving and practical for older ones to prepare younger ones to take on greater responsibility. - Read Psalm 71: 18.
Ulf na one brother wey e don pioneer for 45 years, and e talk say: " I de tire when I come back from preaching. But the work de make me happy, and I de live correct life. "		Says Ulf, who has been in the full - time service for 45 years, " The preaching work makes me tired, but it brings true satisfaction and real meaning to my life. "
Person wey dey feel for person ready to help person comot from the wahala wey e dey.		One meaning of compassion is " to suffer together. "
Even with that one, God dey think about the time wey e go save the ones wey go repent, come dey serve am again!		Still, God was thinking ahead to the time when he would deliver those who would repent and return to him!
Like the governing body for apostle dem time, this slave believe sey everything wey dey Bible na God Word or message and dem value am well well.		Like the first - century governing body, this slave accepts God 's inspired word, or message, and highly esteems it.
After e threaten me, e take me go meet their second oga. The second oga na archbishop for Greek Orthodox church and e wear their archbishop cloth.		After threatening me, the commandant handed me over to his second - in - command, a Greek Orthodox archbishop decked out in full religious regalia.
All of dem dey use all their power preach, as dem dey wait for God Kingdom.		See 's - Proclaimers of God 's Kingdom, chap.
And Latin don be language wey many people no understand again!		Yet, in the Middle Ages, Latin was essentially a dead language among the common people!
And as you dey try to help your children love, go dey bless you. - Ps.		When you strive to impress Bible truth on their hearts, you invite 's rich blessing. - Ps.
And we no dey happy when we do wetin no like.		We all suffer from inherited sin, and when our actions do not reflect our keen desire to please, we may feel miserable.
Because anytime wey we remember the reason, e de give us power make we no tire as we de preach for the whole world. ( Matt.		When we keep in mind why we need to continue to preach, we are motivated to endure in giving " a witness to all the nations. "
Because of this one, make sure sey the widow flour and oil no finish, so that im and im pikin no go die. ( 1 Ki.		God then miraculously maintained her supply of flour and oil, so that she and her son stayed alive.
Bible no tell us.		The Bible does not say.
But, God still love human being.		God 's love for humans, however, endures.
But, Satan and im people want make we stop to love God.		However, Satan and his world strive to undermine our love for God.
But, if person no be God friend, e no fit really happy.		Is it really true that one can be happy without religion?
But don use elders and people for congregation to help me see sey e love me. E don do this one many times.		Time and time again, however, has used the congregation and the elders to confirm his love for me.
But dem see sey I really like the things wey I dey learn from Bible.		But they evidently saw in me a sincere love for spiritual things.
But something happen wey for make dem no be friend again.		However, something occurred that threatened their friendship.
But we go still run from things wey we think sey fit make am vex. - Read Matthew 22: 37, 38.		If we truly love God, we will be careful to avoid not only the things we know will displease him but also the things we merely suspect may displease him. - Read Matthew 22: 37, 38.
But wetin dem really dey do na to go church go talk about one better thing wey don happen for their life. Some dey preach for television, radio and Internet.		However, their efforts are often limited to personal testimonies, church services, or programs broadcast through the media - whether by means of television or on the Internet.
Copper get value well well.		Like gold, copper is a metal that is highly valued.
Daniel get the sense wey God dey give. So e know sey na e go first obey before e obey the people wey dey rule.		Godly wisdom helped him to grasp the principle of relative subjection to secular authorities.
Dem like enjoyment " instead of God. "		It says ' rather than God. '
E come be like sey I dey with my family.		My assignment became my home.
E dey help us sometimes. ( Eccl.		It provides a measure of protection.
E for good make you quick go talk about am with the person.		Perhaps you can straighten out the matter quickly.
E get many things wey fit make am hard for us to go meeting every time.		There are many things that may make it difficult for us to be at our meetings regularly.
E no even want make people know say God get name. ( Jer. 23: 26, 27 ) Plenty people really like to worship God.		In addition, the Devil seems determined to make as many people as possible forget God 's name.
E use this lie spoil God holy name. - Gen.		By lying about, Satan slandered God 's sacred name. - Gen.
Even though sey we come from different different place, all of us dey worship with one mind.		All these dear brothers and sisters from different backgrounds serve unitedly.
Everything wey don promise, dey always happen when e suppose happen!		s prophecies have always been fulfilled right on time!
Follow the advice wey branch office and the government give so that you no go put yourself and other people for trouble.		Follow directions from the branch office and from local authorities; never put yourself or others at risk.
For 1960, when we marry, Eunice mama and papa no come our wedding.		When we got married in 1960, her parents did not come to our wedding.
For all the way wey God don show us favor, which one big pass?		What is the greatest expression of 's undeserved kindness toward mankind?
For some weeks, I do night shift when we dey print one tract wey talk about how dem dey suffer people for Canada.		I was on the night shift for several weeks, printing a tract related to the persecution that 's people were experiencing in Canada.
For the prayer, we tell sey we go serve am forever no matter how things be. Na this promise big pass other promise.		Why so? Because, in private prayer, he solemnly promises that he will use his life to serve God forever, no matter what.
How Bible take show sey all of us dey make mistake?		How does the Bible show that we are all imperfect?
How elders for Israel go take judge matter well like?		How could Israelite elders reflect 's justice?
How the apostles solve one problem wey e fit be say na language cause - am?		How was an issue that may have involved language resolved?
I happy sey I plan well to fit do more for the preaching work. " - Eccl.		I 'm glad I planned to share fully in the disciple - making work. " - Eccl.
I no get money to travel go the school for New York.		I had no money to travel to New York.
I put ear well well for wetin dem dey talk.		I eagerly listened in.
I really believe wetin the book talk.		I believe this with all my heart.
If dem tell us sey we don dey behave like that, we go take their advice, and do wetin dem talk?		If they bring these to our attention, do we accept and apply their counsel?
Jehoshaphat learn from wetin happen to am and from wetin Jehu tell am?		Did Jehoshaphat learn from that experience?
Make we keep am well, so that we fit see am read anytime wey we want read am.		articles that are especially helpful in cultivating Christian qualities or in overcoming particular weaknesses.
Make we no let am happen.		Are we moved to keep our " house " clean?
Make we remember sey na dey give us all this better things.		Above all, each one of us should bear in mind that God is the Source of our spiritual provisions.
Make we talk about this gift and how they fit help us.		What are these gifts, and how do we benefit from them?
Many people dey come the city wey dem dey call Aveiro wey dey northern Portugal. Dem dey come see the pond where the people dey get salt from.		Many tourists come to the city of Aveiro in northern Portugal to see the interesting salt evaporation ponds.
Me and Maxine for Puerto Rico small time after we marry and 50 years after we marry for 2003		With Maxine in Puerto Rico shortly after we got married and at our 50th wedding anniversary in 2003
Na Pilate be governor that time and e stubborn well well. Joseph fit dey think sey Pilate no go let am collect the body.		Yet, if Jesus was to receive a dignified burial, someone would have to ask Pilate to release the body.
Na better thing for your children to know wetin Bible talk, but no be there e end.		Knowledge of the holy writings is important.
Na dem first start to study Bible with Witness for my family.		They were the first in my family to have contact with 's.
Na im make Bible talk sey ' people wey marry go get problem ' sometimes. ( 1 Cor.		That is why the Bible says that married people " will have tribulation " at times.
Na only Ramoni come dey for Zaragoza.		Ramoni stayed in Zaragoza.
Na so God go still give us power make we fit continue to preach. Wahala, anything wey dey worry us for mind, or people wey no want listen to us no go fit stop us. ( 1 Pet.		God will similarly give us strength to stand firm against opposition, apathy, and anxiety so that we can carry out our preaching work.
No let this kind thing happen to you. Jesus know sey things no go easy for us for Satan world. E know sey problem go dey.		Jesus was keenly aware of the pressures associated with the anxieties of this system of things.
One day for work, e come dey look book wey dem pack put for ground. Na there e see one book wey dem dey call The Secret of Family Happiness.		Then, one day at work, Ribeiro looked at a pile of books that were to be recycled, and he noticed a book with the title The Secret of Family Happiness.
Or, you go give yourself to God as person wey don comot hand from sin?		Will you instead ' present yourself to God as alive from the dead '?
Paul wey like this hope well well talk sey: ' God don show im favor, wey fit save different different kind of people. ' - Titus 2: 11.		Paul, who certainly appreciated that fact, said: " The undeserved kindness of God has been manifested, bringing salvation to all sorts of people. " - Titus 2: 11.
People wey love God well well know that one.		Those who love God 's Word have long recognized that fact.
Pharaoh family, Moses teacher, and even other people for Egypt fit dey push am to enjoy life.		What pressure he must have felt to do so from his Egyptian family, teachers, and counselors!
Satan plan to take scatter people no work.		Satan 's attempts to divide them permanently had been thwarted.
So Boaz come born Obed, and Obed come born Jesse. - Ruth 4: 17, 20 - 22; 1 Chron.		Thus Boaz fathered Obed, whose son was Jesse. - Ruth 4: 17, 20 - 22; 1 Chron.
Some of dem dey quick understand the truth wey dey Bible, dey fit choose well, and want baptize when dem dey young.		Some have a good measure of mental and emotional maturity at a young age and express a desire to get baptized.
Some people no even feel sey God go ever forgive dem for the bad thing wey dem do.		Some Christians who have committed a serious sin have even felt that they are beyond God 's forgiveness.
Talk sey you no be Witness again make you dey go house! "		Renounce your activities and go home! "
The answer clear - na only Witness people.		The answer is obvious - only 's.
The truth be sey, you no fit force dem come serve.		In any case, remember that you cannot force others to accept the truth.
This one dey show us sey the elders dey copy the kind love wey get for us. - Gal.		Indeed, elders who try to readjust us in a mild and loving manner when we take " a false step, " perhaps unknowingly, reflect 's love for us. - Gal.
This one go show sey we value this better gift well well.		We thereby show our love and appreciation not only for this divine treasure but, most important, for its Author, God.
This one show sey two of dem no put mind for only wetin dem want.		What does that indicate?
To let am know why e no want leave am, e still show am Romans 10: 13, 14 wey talk sey, ' Anybody wey dey call name go save. '		Next, to show why he cared, Don had Peter read Romans 10: 13, 14, which explains that " everyone who calls on the name of will be saved. "
We fit nack hand for chest sey: " Na Witness people! "		With full confidence, we can say: " 's! "
We know sey dem change some things for the New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures wey dem do for 2013. Na this one make dem change some things for the old songbook.		This required removing or revising lyrics that used expressions no longer found in the New World Translation as a result of the 2013 revision.
We know sey we fit trust una.		We know that we can trust you.
We want make everybody enjoy dem.		We would like everyone to benefit from them.
Wetin Jesus talk show sey na so e go be.		Jesus indicated that this would be the case.
Wetin fit make us no be friend again?		What might damage our relationship with?
Wetin fit make us tire when we de preach for area wey people no like our message?		Why may we feel discouraged when preaching in less responsive territories?
Wetin we fit learn from the life of Rehoboam? E obey God sometimes.		Think of the implications: Rehoboam obeyed God sometimes.
Wetin we go do for 2018 wey dey make people get one mind, and why e be like that?		What is the most unifying event of 2018, and why?
Wetin you think about the example of our young brothers and sisters?		What do you think of the example that our young ones set?
When e get chance to kill Saul wey want kill am, e control imself. And when Shimei dey curse David, e no answer am even though sey David na king. ( 1 Sam. 26: 9 - 11; 2 Sam.		He wielded great power but refrained from using it out of anger when provoked by Saul and Shimei.
When we show sey we want help people like this, dem go want hear wetin we dey tell dem. And this one go mek our preaching touch people mind.		When we show such personal interest, people will be more willing to accept what we say, and our ministry will be more effective.
Which question we go answer for this topic?		What questions will we consider?
Which work give Jesus wey Jesus still give us?		What commission did Jesus receive and in turn pass on to his followers?
Why e good to learn wetin dey Bible?		Why is spiritual food important?
get the type of favor wey match any problem wey we get.		There will always be an expression of God 's kindness that will match each trial.
When person oppress us, we fit go report give people wey dey government mek dem help us.		When we are not treated fairly, we may ask those who have authority in the government for help.
But as dem dey fight to get better character, make dem get am for mind sey dem fit win.		While they continue battling to maintain righteous conduct, they can look to the future with optimism.
So before God destroy bad people, make we no stop to tell dem wetin God go do. E go really show sey God dey pity people.		So until God acts to destroy the wicked, let us continue to proclaim his compassionate warning message.
E no go hard person wey carry hot charcoal dey travel to use the charcoal and dry pieces of wood light another fire.		Glowing embers transported in such a way could readily be used with tinder wood to rekindle a fire at any point along a journey.
But Bible make us know sey all of us dey sin because of Adam.		Nevertheless, the Bible makes clear that as a result of Adam 's sin, we are all born imperfect.
Mek you choose verse for Bible wey dey talk about the kind things wey you go want enjoy for paradise, and dey think am sey you don already dey there.		Choose verses that describe the things you especially wish to enjoy in the new world, and imagine yourself there.
Why e good make we dey patient as we dey help dem?		Why do they need our patient help?
Better enjoyment ' na gift wey God give us. '		Wholesome recreation is a " gift of God. "
How marriage take start?		How did marriage begin?
But how you think sey Paul go feel when e hear sey the congregation dey allow sex wey no clean for God eye!		Consider the situation in ancient Corinth.
And dem no hide their mistake or the one wey other people wey serve God make.		And they made plain their own failings and those of other servants of God.
Why E Good Make We Praise Jah?		Praise Jah! " - Why?
Some women wey get better mind, still use wetin dem get take help Jesus and im apostles. - Luke 8: 1 - 3.		Similarly, Jesus and his apostles later benefited from the generosity of the women " who were ministering to them from their belongings. " - Luke 8: 1 - 3.
Who Dey Lead God People Today?		Who Is Leading God 's People Today?
Character Wey Better Pass Diamond		A Godly Quality More Precious Than Diamonds
All this way to take support work wey we don talk about show sey for person to do this kind contribution, e must plan am well.		As the term " charitable planning " implies, these types of donations typically require some planning on the part of the donor.
And e still dey help us learn how to take work with more more. - 1 Cor.		You also learn how to work closely with. - 1 Cor.
And some things wey e talk na part of wetin dey Bible.		His sayings later became part of the Bible.
Apart from sey e be my friend, I dey like copy im example. '		Besides being my friend, he was a spiritual role model for me. "
Apostle Paul see sey this one na true.		The apostle Paul, for one, had that experience.
Apostle Peter talk sey: " The time wey everything go end don near. " ( 1 Pet.		In a broader sense than ever, " the end of all things has drawn close. "
As day break, Jesus don know sey e don choose the correct people wey suppose be im apostle.		By the time the sun shone on a new day, Jesus knew that he had selected those best qualified to serve as his apostles.
Because na this things we first learn, we fit call dem ' old ' things.		These could well be described as " old, " in that we have known and appreciated them from the beginning of our Christian course.
Brother Ionash dey 90 years and e talk say: " If you divide all the house for our territory, e go mean say 1 publisher go preach for 2 house. "		The ratio of publishers to homes in our congregation 's territory is 1 to 2, " says a 90 - year - old brother named Ionash.
But, no like wetin e do. - 1 Sam.		was not pleased. - 1 Sam.
But e no allow that one carry e mind comot from the thing wey dey important pass.		But Jesus did not want to get sidetracked, diverted from the much more important issue.
But for other country, condition hard well well. So, young people wey dey there, dey feel sey dem must work to help their family.		In other lands, economic conditions may make young ones feel that they must focus on helping to provide materially for their families.
But no government for this world, or ruler, fit remove the problem wey people de face. - Ps.		But no human government or individual ruler is capable of bringing about the changes mankind needs most. - Ps.
But papa or mama wey really love im pikin no dey do everything wey im pikin want. E dey correct im pikin when e suppose to.		But the parent who truly loves his child will be firm when necessary.
But the spirit make the apostles and the other elders for Jerusalem fit do the special work wey God give dem. For example, people for congregation no know whether person must circumcise before e go be Christian.		Holy spirit was poured out on all anointed Christians, but it specifically enabled the apostles and other elders in Jerusalem to fulfill their role as overseers.
Chris come see sey, e dey hard am to follow wetin person talk, and e still dey raise shoulder up.		Chris came to see that his weaknesses were pride and a reluctance to accept direction.
Dem sey e go stay prison for 25 years, and e go dey do hard work for there.		He had been sentenced to 25 years of hard labor.
Dew dey take sofri fall.		Dew is gentle.
E even tell imself sey e no go look any other woman wey no be im wife.		He even made a covenant with his eyes not to look immorally at a virgin.
E fit be sey na only us be the Witness wey dem know.		We are the only they are exposed to.
E get one night wey we talk about the small book wey dem release. The name of the book na God 's Way Is Love.		One night we discussed the release of the booklet God 's Way Is Love, produced especially with Ireland in mind.
E no tey, the size of Bethel come big pass times three of how e be before.		In a short time, the size of the branch property had more than tripled.
E still do auxiliary pioneer when e get chance.		He also arranged to be an auxiliary pioneer when he could.
E talk sey: " Everytime wey I go preach, I dey meet people wey never hear about before.		Giving such ones the opportunity to get to know gives me tremendous satisfaction. "
Even if people like the things wey dey Bible, dem no really see wetin go mek dem study Bible with us.		Even if people are interested in what the Bible says, they do not always feel that it is necessary to study God 's Word with us.
Even when Jesus dey 12 years, e ask question.		Even at 12 years of age, Jesus asked serious questions.
Even when person don dey serve, e go still dey let Bible dey change im life.		And you have seen that even after accepting the truth, Christians continue to make spiritual progress with the help of the Scriptures.
For 1943, Witness come start to invite people come their " Free Nation 's " Theocratic Assembly. Dem do am for 12 city for Mexico.		In 1943 the put on sandwich signs to advertise the " Free Nation 's " Theocratic Assembly held in 12 Mexican cities.
For 2005 dem join help brothers and sisters wey Hurricane Katrina ( heavy breeze wey dey carry rain and thunder come ) scatter their property.		In 2005 they assisted with disaster relief in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina.
For example, no want make im people dey make wahala and e want make dem dey use their sense well. ( Phil.		For instance, all of us should be reasonable and sound in mind.
For example, e tell im disciple make dem dey gentle, dey make peace, dey settle matter quick quick, dey love their enemy and make dem no do wetin fit cause quarrel. - Matt.		For instance, he urged his disciples to be mild - tempered, to be peacemakers, to eliminate causes for anger, to settle matters quickly, and to love their enemies. - Matt.
For example, how you dey see brothers and sisters wey no come from your place?		For example, how do you feel about fellow Christians who are from cultures very different from your own?
For example, na angel tell Cornelius make e send people go call apostle Peter.		Before Cornelius was baptized as the first uncircumcised Gentile Christian, an angel directed him to send for the apostle Peter.
For example, na inside boat Jesus dey when e teach plenty people.		Nevertheless, he took time to cultivate the interest people showed in the good news.
For example, we no go only comot hand from all sex matter wey no clean for God eye but we go still try make we no watch any film wey dey show this kind thing.		Accepting God 's undeserved kindness means not only avoiding sexual immorality but also fighting any tendency to enjoy lewd entertainment.
For garden of Eden, Satan do like sey e get better thing for mind for Eve.		This would not be love at all but a worthless imitation.
For the letter wey Paul write to Christians for Rome, e talk how e de feel about Jew people.		Note what he further said in his letter to the Christians in Rome about his feelings toward those Jews: " The goodwill of my heart and my supplication to God for them are indeed for their salvation.
Get ' Better Sense, ' Oct.		Story of Survival, No. 4
How the bad things wey people dey do today take dey affect us?		How do wrong activities affect us now?
I dey shame well well to preach for anywhere. But I happy for this preaching wey dem arrange. "		But thanks to the special campaign, the example of the local brothers, and many prayers, I was able to do what I couldn 't do before.
I miss my husband well well. But as I dey pioneer, e dey help me fit bear am.		I do miss Walter very much, but pioneering helps me to cope.
I no understand why two people wey I love go separate.		I could not understand why two people whom I loved would leave each other.
If that man wey collect im papa wife fit change, e mean sey any Christian today fit change, especially if wetin e dey do no reach wetin this man do.		If it was possible for that person to change, it is possible for a Christian today to change, especially one who has not gone after the flesh as far as the man in Corinth had.
If the oga do mistake, the enemy fit tell the soldier sey: " You see, your oga no reach to lead una! "		They may use such propaganda as: " You cannot trust your leaders! "
If to sey no dey patient, e for no tell us make we dey patient		With regard to exercising patience, does not expect us to do something that he is not willing to do himself
Im name na Donald, and e sey: " Make elders and ministerial servants value their friendship with.		Donald, an elder for many decades, observes: " Appointed men must cherish their relationship with God.
don give us Bible so that our faith go strong.		To keep our faith strong, has kindly provided us with his complete Word, the Bible.
organization don give papa and mama different different things wey talk about this matter.		Before doing that, however, make good use of material that 's organization has provided for parents.
Kim dey use this chance tell dem why e no want do that kind thing.		That gave her the opportunity to explain why she would not engage in sex.
Make we talk about some of dem.		There are good reasons for your conviction.
Na good thing if you get that kind mind.		You certainly have good reason for such confidence.
Na only theirself dem dey see, na im make dem dey carry shoulder up, dey do like sey na dem sabi pass, and dem like quarrel.		The world abounds with people and societies motivated by a spirit of independence that fosters pride, egotism, and rivalry.
Na something make the person wey write Psalm 147 praise.		The writer of the 147th Psalm was moved to praise.
Na true sey, small pikin ( baby ) wey never know anything never reach to baptize.		Granted, an infant would not qualify for baptism.
Na wetin make James write sey: ' If e get anybody wey no dey make mistake for wetin e dey talk, that person no get sin for body, and e fit control all im body. ' ( Jas.		The disciple James appropriately wrote: " If anyone does not stumble in word, he is a perfect man, able to bridle also his whole body. "
Paul, wey we talk about, wey come dey do the work wey Peter dey do before, talk sey, ' I dey go meet Peter for advice, and I tell other brothers for the department make dem dey go meet am too. '		Paul, mentioned earlier, who replaced Peter as the overseer of a Bethel department, said, " I took time to seek out the advice of Peter, and I encouraged others in the department to do the same. "
Paul come talk sey na still ' one person, Jesus Christ ' make people see the ' surplus favor ' wey God get. ( Rom.		Paul added that " the abundance of [ God 's ] undeserved kindness " came about " through the one person, Jesus Christ. "
People dey suffer well well when things like earthquake or heavy breeze scatter their property.		The sufferings of those struck by disasters move many to manifest compassion.
Person fit contribute money, better earing, ring, necklace or other better better things wey e get.		Donations of cash, jewelry, or other valuable personal property.
Preaching dey help us no be small. E dey help us talk to people well and get better character wey go make people like us for working place.		Disciple - making is an educational experience that teaches you good work habits, communication skills, confidence, and tact.
Remember sey e dey take time before person go fit change im life as e want.		If your spiritual progress seems slow, remember that such growth takes time.
SOMETIMES, e get people wey we dey like to respect and praise.		TO HONOR someone means to show him special attention as well as respect.
Some people look this matter well well around 1940. And dem come see sey many people no dey control theirself that time.		Self - discipline was studied in the 1940 ' s, but recent studies have shown that people have become much worse at exercising self - discipline.
The better thing wey John talk about Gaius, show sey brothers and sisters from different different congregation dey always visit apostle John.		John 's words of appreciation for the hospitality that Gaius showed to the brothers indicate that Christians regularly traveled between the apostle John 's location and the congregations, and these travelers evidently told John about what they had encountered.
The brother talk say: " When e come tell me how that short greeting make e mind come down, I glad say I try to greet the sister.		When she told me what those few words meant to her, " he observes, " I was so glad I made the effort.
The enemy dem wey we dey fight na Satan, im wicked world, and the sin wey dey our body.		Our enemies include Satan, his world, and our own imperfections.
The truth be sey, e no easy to find better cloth wey good for eye. Today, many cloth wey dem dey sell for market na the one wey many people like.		We must admit that it is not always easy to make a decision that shows good judgment, that is sensible, and that takes all factors into account.
Their picture dey our jw.org website. The way dem happy for the picture, show sey dem dey do wetin like.		The positive look on their faces, as seen on our jw.org website, shows that they have kept their faith strong.
Think am sey you give your friend one better gift.		Imagine that you gave a valuable gift to a friend.
This one no easy at all. Na im make law plenty.		Complicated " is surely the right word.
This one really good because go use Jesus and the anointed Christian destroy Satan and everybody wey join Satan. - Rom.		That is fitting, since it is Jesus and his anointed corulers whom will use to crush Satan and his followers. - Rom.
This problem fit make am hard for dem to help their children understand ' the holy things ' wey dey Bible. ( 2 Tim.		The resulting barrier may make it hard for parents to impart to their children a deep knowledge of " the holy writings. "
This thing pain Jephthah reach bone.		Jephthah 's heart was broken.
To make us understand well, make we use example of papa wey dey teach im pikin how to drive motor.		To illustrate, think of a father who teaches his son to drive a car.
To show sey wetin dey im mind never change, e come still talk sey: ' Na me be the same Person, I no dey change. '		Emphasizing his unchanging purpose, added: " I am always the same One. "
We need help because we no go fit help ourself. - Jer.		We need our heavenly Father 's help because we are unable to direct our own steps. - Jer.
We no dey sell our book and other things wey we get. Because of this one, some people fit dey think sey dem fit put am for another website or for social media.		Because we offer our Bible - based material without charge, some feel that copying and posting it on other websites or on social media is acceptable.
Wetin Nehemiah example teach us? If we know where we suppose do reach, we no go trust ourself when our work for congregation change or dem add join am.		Nehemiah 's example demonstrates how modesty can help us to keep from becoming self - reliant when we receive a change of assignment or additional responsibility.
Wetin Zechariah see? E see one container wey dem dey call " ephah. "		He now sees a container, called an " ephah, " going out.
Wetin help Jesus continue to serve God even when e dey suffer?		How did Jesus remain faithful when under trial?
Wetin you learn for this topic wey fit help you?		How has the information in this article helped you?
Wetin you need na to be God friend. "		All you need is a personal relationship with God.
When Brother Rutherford dey talk about other people wey be anointed like am, e talk sey: " Their faith dey make dem see the time wey trouble no go dey again, when Jesus Christ go begin rule.		Speaking of his fellow anointed Christians, Brother Rutherford said: " Beyond the time of trouble by the eye of faith they see the Golden Age of the glorious reign of the Messiah.
When David be young man, e kill lion and bear wey come carry im papa sheep.		He displayed tremendous courage when he confronted a battle - hardened giant.
When I dey Gilead School, I sitdown near Brother Martin Poetzinger.		In class at Gilead, I sat next to Martin Poetzinger.
When Martha no dey happy, wetin help am? E get one time wey one sister no dey happy.		How was Marthe helped during a period of depression?
Which better example people wey come from another place fit copy?		What example of respect and gratitude can immigrants imitate today?
Why dem use copper take make the mountain?		Why are the mountains made of copper?
But, Paul and other Christian no talk bad about the Law; dem even preach for many place wey Jew people dey and dem no give dem wahala. ( 1 Cor.		Yet, Paul and other Christians did not speak disrespectfully of the Law; they were able to witness in many Jewish communities without interference.
If we don ready to do wetin God want, Satan no fit stop us. - Job 2: 3; 27: 5.		If we are resolved to do God 's will, there is nothing Satan can do to break our integrity. - Job 2: 3; 27: 5.
[CONTENT_REMOVED]		See paragraph 6 )
Esau still show sey im mind dey for things wey no good. E marry two women wey no dey serve, and this one show sey e no value holy things at all.		Esau also showed himself inclined toward the profane, lacking appreciation for sacred things, by marrying two pagan women, to his parents ' grief.
How we fit follow wetin Paul talk today?		In order to apply Paul 's counsel today, what steps can we take?
Na e make we suppose de check everytime whether we still de follow wetin Bible de teach us.		Instead, we regularly check that the ' iron plates ' has given us are firmly fixed over our heart.
But wetin we go do if we want make help us?		But how can we benefit from his readiness to act in our behalf?
As people wey like peace, we go dey do things well with all our brothers and sisters and congregation go get one mind. ( Ps.		As peacemakers, we will enjoy a good relationship with our fellow believers and will promote the unity of the congregation.
Why Paul feel like that?		Why did Paul experience such feelings?
Wetin dey pain some people wey don grow, and wetin you fit do make that kind thing no happen to you?		What sad situation may arise in adulthood, and how can this be avoided?
Which part for Bible you dey like to read?		What is your favorite part of the Bible?
Why e no good make we tire even if we make mistake?		Why should we not give up on ourselves even if we " fall seven times, " as it were?
Serve Well Even If You Dey Another Language Congregation		Maintain Your Spiritual Health While Serving in a Foreign Field
Another thing be sey, e no start to tell people story about im life for heaven or how e join God make things. But e ' open their eye make dem fit understand wetin God Law talk. '		And rather than regale his listeners with personal stories about life in heaven or the creation of the universe, " he opened up their minds fully to grasp the meaning of the Scriptures. "
But this one no go fit just happen like that, even if we don dey the organization for many years.		This does not happen automatically.
We dey make many promise, but the promise wey dey important pass, na the one wey we make before we baptize.		Of all the promises we make, the most important is the one we make when we dedicate ourselves to.
After I go Bible School for Single Brothers * for two months, dem come send me go another place. For that place I come get four Bible student. I like to dey teach people.		After I attended the two - month Bible School for Single Brothers, * I received a new assignment where I have started four studies.
After wuna watch - am finish, e good make wuna talk about wetin wuna learn.		After viewing the program, why not take time to discuss how to apply the points that were featured?
And Paul go don like the better mind wey Barnabas get, and how e take dey care for people.		On the other hand, Paul certainly would have appreciated Barnabas ' kindness and compassion.
And this one go dey make us think like am. We go come fit dey follow Jesus example, and get the " kind mind " wey e get. - 1 Pet.		We thus can " follow his steps closely " and " arm [ ourselves ] with the same mental disposition " as Christ had. - 1 Pet.
And we know sey many of our brothers and sisters dey face some of this problem at once.		And we know that many are dealing with, not one, but several of such problems all at once!
And whether dem tell us or dem no tell us, dem fit get the kind mind wey David get, when e tell Abigail sey: ' God go bless you for the better sense wey you get! '		Whether they verbalize it or not, they may feel like David, who said: " Blessed be your good sense! "
Another person wey help us na Brother Frederick W.		We had the special privilege of having Brother Frederick W.
As long as we continue to preach the good news about the Kingdom of God, we de " endure as we de produce fruit. "		Hence, this illustration teaches us that as long as we keep on proclaiming the Kingdom message, we " bear fruit with endurance. "
Ask dem how dem dey, and how their preaching work be. - Prov.		Inquire about their ministry and their well - being. - Prov.
Because e no sabi speak the language well, e pass one year before Osei see better work.		Because he struggled with the language, Osei could not find a decent job for over a year.
Before God Kingdom come, why poor people go always dey this world?		In this system of things, why will there always be some poor people?
Bible sey make we " fear the true God and do everything wey e talk, because na wetin God want make person do be that. "		In other words, we were designed to do God 's will.
But I come see sey something wey better pass my work dey miss for my life.		But I began to realize that something was missing in my life, something far more important than my job.
But e no still want sey mek we come dey think sey na where we come from better pass where other people come from. - Romans 10: 12.		But he also does not want us to think that we are better than others. - Romans 10: 12.
But my papa tell my brother sey: " If you want pioneer, you fit pioneer. We go close this business. " My brother agree.		We had begun setting up a business, but Father said to my brother, " If you want to go pioneering, we 'll get rid of this. "
But wetin we fit do so that we no go dey think and behave like dem?		But we can avoid being drawn into their thinking and imitating their characteristics.
Dem dey use any chance preach.		They give a witness at every opportunity.
Dem do well! Na for 1931 Bible Students start to bear the name Witness. - Isa.		The Bible Students adopted the name 's in 1931. - Isa.
Dem travel 1,000 miles ( 1,600 km ) before dem reach Jerusalem. The road no good at all. If e no dey their mind to go build temple again, you think sey dem for waka this kind waka?		If the rebuilding of 's temple was not important, they would not have made the difficult journey of some 1,000 miles ( 1,600 km ) through a harsh land.
E fit even start to dey come meeting and answer question well for meeting.		He may begin attending congregation meetings and even give good comments.
E see sey the brothers for there dey only put their own matter for mind.		He observed that the brothers there were overly occupied with personal affairs.
E sey: ' E just be like sey dey talk to me. '		The talk also mentioned that expanding one 's ministry leads to more joy.
E sweet me say the sister like the thing wey I do. "		It made me feel good too. "
E talk sey: ' After about one year wey I don think about wetin to do and I don save money, I come dey sell ice cream for street.		After planning for about a year, " he explained, " I decided to become a street vendor and sell ice cream.
E talk sey for some people, dem dey fight wetin be ' like chukuchuku for body. '		He noted that it mentioned that for some the battle is " a thorn in the flesh. "
E talk sey mek we ' give Caesar the things wey be Caesar own, but give God the things wey be God own. '		He said that we should pay back " Caesar 's things to Caesar, but God 's things to God. "
Eve ' go dey help am, ' because Eve ' make Adam complete. ' As dem dey do wetin dem suppose do as husband and wife, dem go dey happy every day. ( Gen.		Being " a complement " of him, she would be " a helper for him " as they daily brought happiness to each other by fulfilling their roles as husband and wife.
Even Though I Be Deaf, I No Stop to Preach ( W.		Being Deaf Has Not Held Me Back From Teaching Others ( W.
For example, King David really suffer after e sin. E go sleep with Bath - sheba, the wife of another person. ( 2 Sam.		For example, think of the pain that King David experienced after he disobeyed 's command and committed adultery with Bath - sheba.
For example, you fit smile for dem.		For example, smile - even if you do not feel like it at first.
For the ones wey dem later print, dem still use " LORD " for some verse for the Greek part of Bible.		Later printings also used the word " LORD " in capital letters in some verses in the Christian Greek Scriptures.
God pursue dem comot from the garden, and dem no fit go back. ( Gen.		God expelled them from Eden, and they had no hope of ever returning.
How we go take show sey we happy for the things wey e dey give us?		How can we show our gratitude to for his provisions?
How you fit study wetin dey Genesis 3: 15?		How might you study Genesis 3: 15?
I value money and property pass the way I like and people?		Do I value material things more than my relationship with and with people?
If people praise you for anything wey you sabi do, or for any good thing wey you do, you dey show sey na help you fit do am?		Will you give credit to for any gifts you have or for what you have accomplished?
If person want find that kind flower, e go put eye down.		If you would possess it you must stoop to get it.
If something dey worry you for mind, Bible sey make you " throw that load wey dey heavy you give. " ( Ps.		When you experience any kind of anxiety, the Bible 's wise advice is to " throw your burden on. "
If we get this one for mind plus the love wey we get for our brothers, e go make us no do wetin go disturb dem for mind or vex dem. ( 1 Cor.		Modesty and love move us to take into account the opinions of fellow believers in order to avoid distracting or even offending them.
If we let people choose for us, we dey ' follow dem. '		In many respects, if we let others make our decisions, we are essentially deciding to " follow them. "
Im brother kill imself. Junia talk sey: " Even if you no fit really know how e pain dem reach, wetin matter pass be sey, you want understand how body dey do dem. "		Junia, whose brother took his own life, adds: " Even though you may not be able to grasp their grief completely, what counts is that you want to understand how they feel. "
Instead, e go make dem to fit turn the whole earth to paradise, where people wey no get sin go stay forever. Na wetin God get for mind be that.		It was given to enable humans to participate in their Creator 's purpose - to make the earth into a global paradise home for a race of perfect humans forever.
Jezebel come arrange make people talk lie about Naboth so that im husband go fit collect the farm. Na that one come make dem kill Naboth and im children.		In order to obtain the vineyard for her husband, Jezebel orchestrated the false accusation against Naboth, which resulted in the execution of both Naboth and his sons.
Joseph wey be the first pikin wey Rachel born for Jacob show us good example for this matter.		A good example of how to handle faults was set by Joseph, the first of Jacob 's two sons by Rachel.
Later, Graham tell this brother make e dey study with am. The elder remember wetin happen.		Some years later, he asked an elder who had befriended him to study the Bible with him.
Make una no forget sey like the work wey una dey do and e no go forget am. - Heb.		Be assured that deeply appreciates your willing spirit, and he will not forget it. - Heb.
Make we come see how we go take show sey we know, true true, sey ' our God na one. '		Let us, therefore, see how we can show by our actions that we truly understand that " our God is one. "
Na Ann come dey help Paula so that e fit continue to serve. Paula talk sey: ' Even though Ann no be my family person, e do wetin show sey im love me.		Even though Ann was not related to me, I found her loving concern to be such a help, " Paula explains.
Na because e no fit do am or because e no want stress im life? No.		He did not turn down David 's invitation because he felt inadequate to shoulder responsibility or because he wanted to enjoy a quiet life in retirement.
Na im make dey use better eye look people, e no dey put eye for their mistake. ( Ps.		Hence, takes a positive view of people and does not focus on temporary imperfections.
Na this kind love apostle Paul talk about for Bible, when e write sey: ' Make every man love im wife as e take love imself; and make the wife respect im husband well well. ' - Eph.		Concerning this love, the apostle Paul wrote: " Each one of you must love his wife as he does himself; on the other hand, the wife should have deep respect for her husband. " - Eph.
Na true sey dem dey happy to show person wetin Bible talk.		They are happy to share Bible - based information with others in the flock.
Na true sey e no easy to do. But we go happy when we see sey we dey do wetin talk and dey follow im example.		Self - restraint in such situations is not automatic, yet it is easier if we realize that our actions are in line with God 's example and in harmony with his counsel.
No matter the country wey the Christian dey, when e dey think wetin e suppose do for this matter, make e no come do wetin go make im mind worry am. ( Rom.		Irrespective of local circumstances, therefore, when deciding how to act, Christians should pursue a course that leaves them with a good conscience.
No wonder song na part of wetin we dey use worship. We no dey take am play. We fit sing when only us dey, or when we dey with brothers and sisters for meeting.		It is no wonder that singing is a prominent aspect of pure worship, whether we are alone when we sing or we are with the congregation of God 's people.
One man wey sabi this matter talk sey: " For this kind person mind, e get small altar where e dey worship imself. "		One scholar wrote the following about the person who has an all - consuming pride: " In his heart there is a little altar where he bows down before himself. "
One oga wey dey control Germany soldier, talk sey na wetin make Germany lose the fight for World War I. The lie enter people body sotey their mind comot from the war. Na wetin Satan still dey do today.		A German general, it has been said, admitted that one reason for defeat in World War I was that the people " were hypnotized by the enemy propaganda as a rabbit is by a snake. "
One person for my mama family na priest and na teacher before e die, for one Catholic school.		My mother 's cousin was a priest and a teacher in a Catholic school.
One thing be sey, angel hand dey inside.		For one, angels are involved.
Power Wey Rome People Give Jews for Judea, Oct.		Nuns Become True Spiritual Sisters ( F. and A.
Since the time wey dem write that Watchtower for 1979, science people don do many new things.		Have there been significant scientific or medical developments since that article was published in 1979?
So Jephthah no go get grandpikin wey go answer im name.		There would be no way to pass on the family name and legacy.
So make we ask dem.		So let us do that.
So when Jesus be small pikin, im self go like to play. Bible talk sey ' time dey to laugh and time dey to dance. '		God 's Word says that there is " a time to laugh. and a time to dance. "
The first week after we marry, we visit one congregation wey dey Rapu Rapu Island.		We spent the first week after our wedding visiting a congregation on Rapu Rapu Island.
The sister get three children, and all of dem na girls. The sister talk sey: " Na since when my children small, I dey ask myself sey, ' I dey tell my children wetin make me believe sey dey and sey e love us? I dey help dem see sey everything wey dey do correct?		Stephanie, the mother of three daughters, says: " Ever since my children were very young, I have had to ask myself, ' Do I talk to my children about why I am convinced of 's existence, his love, and the rightness of his ways?
The things wey we dey learn from Bible suppose make us no wear tight cloth, cloth wey dey show our body, or cloth wey fit make person start to dey think bad thing.		The principles that we glean from God 's Word should move us to avoid wearing clothing that is tight - fitting, revealing, or sexually provocative.
Their boys and men dey wear suit and tie, and the skirt wey their girls and women dey wear just dey ok. you no fit talk sey na old school. "		Boys and men wear a jacket and tie, while the girls ' and women 's skirt length is. in good taste, yet modern. "
This one na hard thing for Rehoboam.		Rehoboam may have felt trapped!
This one really make dem happy no be small.		Why not discuss your plans with some of them?
Una fit talk about anything wey dey worry dem or wey dey make dem fear.		That includes talking about any uncertainties, or doubts, they may have.
Una no gree enter and una no let other people enter! '		You yourselves did not go in, and you hinder those going in!
We de produce fruit if we no tire to preach.		Instead, it depends on our own faithfulness.
We dey welcome people wey come from another place?		Are we showing gracious hospitality to newcomers from other lands?
We even get more reason to trust and obey am pass Job.		Indeed, we have even more reason to do so than Job had!
We know this one because Bible talk say when Satan show Jesus " all the kingdom for this earth, " e tell Jesus say: " I go give you all this power and their glory, because they don give me, and I go give anybody wey I want. "		That fact was made plain when Satan showed Jesus " all the kingdoms of the inhabited earth " and said: " I will give you all this authority and their glory, because it has been handed over to me, and I give it to whomever I wish. "
Wetin e mean for you to do well for God work?		What does making spiritual progress mean to you?
Wetin papa and mama fit learn from Samuel example?		What can parents learn from elderly Samuel?
Wetin we fit learn from the way Jesus correct people and teach dem?		What are some lessons about appropriate discipline and effective teaching that we can learn from Jesus?
Wetin we go dey do to show sey na our King?		How can we uphold 's sovereignty now?
When I finish secondary school, I come talk sey I go like go preach for where witness no too plenty.		When I graduated from secondary school, I asked to serve where the need for Kingdom preachers was greater.
When we dey feel sey our problem don pass wetin we fit bear, wetin we fit do?		When we feel overwhelmed by the pressures of life, what can we do?
When we want settle problem for marriage, make we pray make give us im holy spirit. Holy spirit go help us do wetin Bible talk and we go fit show sey we get the different character wey dey use im spirit give person. - Gal.		In resolving marital problems, we should also pray for 's spirit and his help in applying Bible principles and displaying the fruitage of his spirit. - Gal.
Which better character go help elders take care of sheep well?		What fine qualities will help elders to be effective shepherds of God 's flock?
Which kind work many young people don enjoy?		What form of sacred service have many young people enjoyed?
Which time go take be ' everything to everybody '?		When will become " all things to everyone "?
Who fit dey among the main people wey we go invite come our house?		Who should be among the primary guests in our homes?
Why? Because God servant believe sey for eye, to dey do like am better pass to get diamond, gold and other things.		The reason is that God 's servants believe that displaying 's qualities is more precious in his eyes than diamonds, gold, or other material things.
Why Cain no choose wetin good, and wetin come happen?		What affected Cain 's ability to make a wise decision, and with what result?
Your Preaching Be Like Dew?		Your Ministry Like the Dew?
paragraph 15 ) If you want see wetin fit make Christian carry im brother for congregation go court, check " Keep Yourselves in God 's Love, " p. 223, ftn.		paragraph 15 ) For information about situations in which one Christian might decide to take legal action against another Christian, see " Keep Yourselves in God 's Love, " p. 223, ftn.
Everywhere for this world go turn to paradise and na only enjoyment go dey. Everybody for this earth go dey show love like God.		The whole earth will be made a paradise of exquisite delight, and everyone on earth will reflect God 's love.
Wetin Bible talk about how we go dress, show sey the Person wey high pass for the whole world, get how e want make people wey dey worship am dey dress.		What the Scriptures say about dress and grooming leaves no doubt that the Sovereign of the universe has wholesome standards of attire for his true worshippers.
Any time wey wahala full our body or our problem come be like chukuchuku for body, we fit beg make e pity us and help us.		At any time that we are plagued with trials or turmoil in our life, we can cry out to for his merciful help.
Even when some people wey no be Witness come our meeting, dem dey see sey God dey with us.		Even when some who do not serve come to the meetings, they realize that God is guiding us.
When Jesus talk about Herod for here, e be like say na people wey them de support Herod e de talk about.		Matthew 's account reveals that Jesus also mentioned the Sadducees in this conversation.
We no dey see Bible as book wey people just use their sense write, but we dey see am as God Word. - 1 Thess.		We view the Bible, not as a collection of human ideas, but " just as it truthfully is, as the word of God. " - 1 Thess.
For people wey be ' other sheep, ' don agree to take dem as im children.		As to those of us who are of the " other sheep, " it is as though has drawn up an adoption certificate with our name on it.
Wetin happen to the container?		What did Zechariah next see happen to the ephah container?
Wetin be the three main question wey we go talk about for this topic?		What key questions about spirituality will we consider?
You don gain from the way dem take use Bible verse for meeting before, how?		How have you benefited from Scriptural teaching presented at our meetings?
Sam. 1: 11 ) answer Hannah prayer.		Hannah 's request was granted, and she gave birth to her firstborn - a son.
How we fit use wetin dey 1 Timothy 3: 2 - 7 for our life ( b ) And how we fit use am take help other people?		How can we use this information to help others?
Know Where You Suppose Do Reach		Why Modesty Still Matters
Word Wey Get Better Meaning!		A Word That Meant So Much!
Tim. 5: 19 - 21 ) And don talk sey everybody wey dey im organization must dey clean for body and comot hand for things wey e no like. - 2 Cor.		And decrees that all those in his organization must be clean physically and spiritually. - 2 Cor.
This one na true talk!		How could it be otherwise?
After about 400 years, talk something about imself wey Moses write. E write sey: ' Na im be the Rock.		Some 400 years later, said of himself: " The Rock, perfect is his activity, for all his ways are justice.
After some short time, I come be regular pioneer when I dey 17 years.		Soon, at the age of 17, I started to serve as a regular pioneer.
And since that time, e no go again!		And he never did!
And that evening I go the meeting.		So that night I went.
As take all im mind forgive una, make una still dey do like that. '		Just as freely forgave you, you must also do the same. "
Because e know how im Papa dey think, na im make e know sey e no suppose do am.		Because he was familiar with his Father 's thinking, Jesus knew that he should not turn the stones into bread.
Because of this one, the people wey dey give us problem come stop.		Shortly thereafter, we were moved to more suitable quarters across the Brazilian border.
Because we no get mind to talk about wetin we believe, dem fit no want listen to us.		They may even respond unkindly because of our lack of confidence.
Before e choose, make e think am well, pray about am, and talk the matter with im wife and children. ( 1 Cor.		After careful thought and prayer and consultation with his mate and children, a family head must decide.
Bible still talk wetin we go do about bad friend, person wey dem disfellowship and wetin we dey watch or read. E fit be sey person no dey quick do wetin Bible talk for this kind matter.		As another example, think about a servant of who is somewhat reluctant to follow Bible standards, perhaps regarding associations, disfellowshipping, or entertainment.
But later stop to dey use Jew people because of wetin dem do.		However, the Jews had lost their special relationship with.
But dem hold Michael and im family for two days before dem ask their oga wetin dem go do dem.		After holding the family for two days, the officer in charge radioed his superior to ask what should be done with them.
But even the disciples of Jesus get that kind character too.		The disciples too were affected by prejudice.
But if we go download our book and other things from another place, dem fit don put lie lie inside, or dem fit don change some things for inside. - Ps.		If the spiritual food passes through other channels, there is no guarantee that it has not been altered or contaminated. - Ps.
But make we remember sey dem get freedom to choose wetin dem go do.		Still, others have a right and responsibility to make their own decisions.
But we still need to know the answer for this three important question: ( 1 ) Which things Satan get power to do?		Still, we need to know the answers to three key questions: What is the extent of Satan 's influence?
But when we support work, e dey show sey na side we dey.		Since the Devil first enticed humans to support his rival sovereignty, your siding with 's rulership sends Satan a message that is loud and clear.
David and im family suffer well well because of this bad thing wey e do. ( 2 Sam.		David paid dearly for his crime - calamities came upon him and his household.
Dem come ask im mama if e get anything wey dem fit help am do.		The sisters asked if there was anything they could do to help.
Dem feel sey person wey get power suppose talk or do something wey go make people fear am.		They reason that to be strong, a person has to be assertive and aggressive.
Dem no dey do the bad things wey their body or mind want make dem do.		They were no longer obeying the dictates or impulses of their sinful desires.
E come even give some of us simple work.		He even assigned some of us easier duties.
E help me fit keep better friends wey help me continue for my preaching work. '		I am glad those efforts bore fruit and have resulted in many deep and lasting friendships that help me to endure in my assignment. "
E no fight the other 10 tribe as God talk. But e still de rule the other two tribe, Judah and Benjamin. So e build different - different city for the place wey this two tribe dey.		Obediently abandoning his plan to fight the newly established nation, he turned his attention to building cities in the tribal territories of Judah and Benjamin over which he still reigned.
E no reach two years before Titanic sink.		Within two years the Titanic sank.
E still scatter the snake wey Moses use copper make because Israel people don turn am to juju.		He also crushed the copper serpent that Moses had made, " which by then had been misused for idolatrous purposes.
Even with that one, the brothers still de do good for their brothers and sisters, whether black or white.		That kind of thing, though, did not stop the brothers from showing kindness.
Fear dey well well because almost every time, we dey hear the sound of the plane engine when e off. Then as e dey reach ground, e go bomb.		It was a terror campaign, for if you heard the engine cut out, as we often did, you knew that seconds later the plane would fall and explode.
For 1933, dem cross the place wey dem dey call Simpson Desert go preach for Alice Springs town for Australia. Sand sand full that desert no be small.		In 1933, they crossed the Simpson Desert, a vast sand dune desert, to preach in the town of Alice Springs, in the heart of the continent.
For 2012, Hans and Brook come go Ghana go pioneer for four month and dem help one sign language congregation for there.		In 2012 they went to Ghana and were able to serve there for four months, assisting a sign - language congregation.
For March 31 this year, people for the whole world go gather together to remember Jesus death. We go do am for evening after sun don go down. Plenty people wey we invite go still join us do am.		ON March 31, 2018, as the sun begins to set, God 's people and many interested ones will assemble for the annual observance of the Lord 's Evening Meal.
For example, think about the people wey Bible talk about for Genesis 20: 2 - 7 and Matthew 26: 31 - 35.		Consider, for example, the following Bible accounts: Genesis 20: 2 - 7 and Matthew 26: 31 - 35.
For example, wetin you go do if elder talk something wey be like sey e dey do partial?		For example, how will you respond if an elder makes a remark that hints at a degree of prejudice?
George and Adria own be sey, to come preach for Ghana don help dem know wetin e mean to be missionary.		For George and Adria, serving in Ghana allowed them to experience firsthand what it takes to be missionaries.
Hannah promise sey Samuel go be Nazirite, wey go dey work for tabernacle.		She vowed to give her son Samuel to serve at the tabernacle as a Nazirite.
Help Your Pikin Make E Get Faith, Sept.		Grateful Recipients of God 's Undeserved Kindness, July
How family worship fit help family dey as one?		What role does family worship play in promoting unity?
How our meeting don take teach you how to do wetin Bible talk and how to fit preach well?		How have meetings helped you to use what you learned from the Bible and to improve the way you preach?
I come tell my self sey may be e no really dey im mind to spoil my name. "		I concluded that she probably did not really mean what she wrote.
I de try make I read all our books wey they write for young people.		I make sure that I 've read all the material published for young people.
I still dey use all my mind serve? ( Col.		Am I continuing to serve wholeheartedly?
If this kind thing happen to you, remember sey wetin you do fit make you and no be friend.		Even after baptism, they may at times be tempted to return to their former practices.
who we go marry? ( b ) who go be our friend?		selecting a marriage mate. ( b ) choosing our associations.
If we get this one for mind, we go dey always remember to tell dem sey e good make person give im life and baptize.		We will not hold back from discussing at appropriate times the importance of dedication and baptism.
If you dey study like this brother, you self go dey love and Jesus more more. And you go continue to thank dem for wetin dem do. This one go really help you gain from the Memorial.		Such a study project may help you to deepen your love and appreciation for and Jesus and thus may help you to benefit more fully from the Memorial.
International Convention.		International Conventions.
make Jephthah win Ammon people. But na the only pikin wey Jephthah get na im come meet am when e come back from the war.		The Ammonites were conquered, and it was Jephthah 's beloved daughter who came out to meet him upon his victorious return.
people dey try show better example. ( 2 Cor.		Christians strive to be exemplary.
Jephthah pikin na another person wey need better word.		Another example in ancient times of someone in need of encouragement is Jephthah 's daughter.
Jesus talk sey e be like shepherd and Christians be like sheep wey dey one group.		Jesus compared himself to a shepherd and his followers to a flock of sheep.
Job na another person wey still know sey people wey don die go come life again when time reach.		The patriarch Job similarly looked to a future resurrection.
Like apostle Paul, no matter wetin we suffer, make we continue to preach. This one go show sey we value preaching well well.		If we treasure our ministry, we will be like the apostle Paul, continuing to preach despite persecution.
Make we dey do good to people, even if dem be our enemy. This one go make the way we dey do things with dem dey better.		To improve relationships, even with enemies, the Bible recommends hospitality.
Make we ready to leave them.		No doubt you would.
Make we see one example of something wey happen for our time.		Consider a modern - day situation.
Many people today " like enjoyment " as Bible talk.		As foretold, many people today are " lovers of pleasures. "
Na give us everything wey we get.		All that we have comes from.
Na im make e tell that man for prison about wetin happen so that the man fit help am.		He was keenly aware that he was the victim of many injustices.
Na the same thing Deuteronomy 6: 4 and Deuteronomy 6: 5 dey teach us?		Does the oneness of relate to loving him with one 's whole heart, whole soul, and whole strength, as stated in verse 5?
Na you dem choose sey I go visit. "		They chose you to receive this shepherding visit. "
No be money dem take dey know person wey God bless.		Material wealth is not necessarily an indication of God 's blessing.
No be sey we go force people read and study Bible.		Of course, we should not pressure anyone to read and study the Bible.
ONE sister wey be regular pioneer, wey im husband na elder, talk sey: " For many years, even though sey I dey arrange my time to fit serve well, I still get problem wey I dey manage.		A SISTER who is a regular pioneer and is married to an elder, says: " Despite maintaining a good spiritual routine, I have struggled with anxiety for many years.
One book wey be Backgrounds of Early Christianity talk sey: ' Jew people enjoy plenty things for Rome hand.		The book Backgrounds of Early Christianity states: " Judaism enjoyed a privileged position in the Roman empire.
One day e come go our Kingdom Hall.		Then he attended a meeting of 's.
One day wey we dey preach, me and Bud come meet one Church of Christ pastor. The pastor talk about some place for Bible wey I never hear before.		One day, Bud and I met a Church of Christ minister, who talked about scriptures that I was not familiar with.
One of my student come start to come Kingdom Hall.		One student began coming to the Kingdom Hall.
Or we don dey like to get the ' big big things ' wey people for this world want get, like to go university?		Or the love of the world might involve efforts to attain " great things, " such as through the pursuit of higher education.
Organization come tell colporteur ( wey we dey call pioneer now ) sey make dem stop to do business when dem dey preaching. This one come make one colporteur vex comot for the organization go start im own Bible study group.		When instructed to stop mixing commercial business with the preaching work, one resentful colporteur quit and formed his own Bible study group.
Other people fit do my work, so that I fit get chance do another work? '		Can some of his current work be delegated to make room for the new responsibility?
People for last days still get other bad character wey we no suppose get. Na im make this kind people no suppose be our friend.		Other qualities displayed by people in the last days provide additional reasons for Christians to keep their distance from such people.
Remember sey, you no go there to argue but na to let God word reach im mind.		Remember, your goal should be to win hearts, not arguments.
Since plenty talk fit make us start to argue about Bible, we dey plan the time wey we go use talk with am reach. "		To avoid long conversations that would usually lead to a heated discussion about religion, we set a time limit for the visit. "
Small small, e come fit dey manage the problem well and control how e dey feel.		Gradually, I began to feel more in control.
So how you go take know wetin want make you do for this matter?		What is 's mind on the matter?
The first topic talk about the problem wey refugee brothers and sisters dey face. E still talk about wetin we fit do to help dem well.		The first of these articles discusses the difficult situation of our brothers and sisters who have become refugees, and it provides practical suggestions on how we can best help them.
The first topic talk about wetin e mean to pull the old character comot and why we suppose do am quick quick.		The first article explains what it means to strip off the old personality and why doing so is urgent.
The people wey dey lead for church today, no dey preach about God Kingdom.		The clergy of Christendom are not preaching God 's Kingdom.
The publishers for Turkey pass 2,800. But the people wey dey the country reach 79 million.		There are over 2,800 publishers in Turkey, but the country has a population of 79 million.
The wife of one of the brother wey dey teach for the school dem, really make my mind come down.		The wife of one of the instructors really put me at ease.
The woman and e daughter come baptize.		Mother and daughter both decided to serve and got baptized.
Their story fit help us know wetin we suppose do and wetin we no suppose do if we get the kind problem wey dem get.		It also shows us the way we can do this. We benefit from reading Bible accounts about real people struggling with real problems.
They no fit change the condition.		And the answer, put simply, is that there was little choice back in those days.
This one fit make dem respect us. " Wetin you go do if you want get life?		What is involved in your working out your own salvation?
This one really show sey Jesus don start to dey rule, and im Kingdom go soon bring better things come this earth.		This is evidence that God 's Kingdom reigns and will soon bring to earth unimaginable blessings.
Wallis talk sey: ' The plan to get five hours for some days for preaching na correct plan!		Wallis reported: " The five - hour day suggestion was grand!
We fit contribute for Kingdom Hall, or we fit use our jw.org website. But when we dey contribute, we no dey let other people know the amount wey we contribute.		We discreetly place funds in the contribution boxes at the Kingdom Hall, or we may make donations online through jw.org.
Wetin be some of dem?		What are some of them?
Wetin we go do so that peace go dey our congregation?		How can we maintain peace in the congregation?
Wetin you dey talk about dey show sey na the spirit you dey put for mind, or na the flesh?		Do your conversations show that your mind is set on the spirit or on the flesh?
When I do like that, I fit help other young people with something for Bible or jw.org. "		That way I can direct my peers to something in the Bible or on jw.org that will help them. "
When the opportunity to preach the good news come, e do like prophet Isaiah, wey talk sey: " I dey here!		When opportunities arose to advance the good news, his attitude was like that of Isaiah, who said: " Here I am!
Which question Romans 8: 21 fit make us think about?		Romans 8: 21 should lead us to reflect on what question?
Which things e no get power to do?		What are the limits of his power?
Who fit encourage brothers and sisters?		Who can encourage fellow Christians?
Who write this part for Bible?		Who wrote this portion of the Scriptures?
You dey see this correction as something wey show sey love you? Elders dey sofri use love correct us even before we know sey we don do wetin no good.		Is that how you view God 's discipline, whether it comes through his Word, Bible - based publications, Christian parents, or congregation elders?
You fit even dey vex when you think about all the wahala wey e don cause. But wetin do?		Perhaps you feel similar emotions when you consider all the suffering Satan has caused.
Dey do good to unaself and no complain. " - 1 PET.		Be hospitable to one another without grumbling. " - 1 PET.
God ' use angels ' take bring the Law wey Moses take teach Israel people. ( Gal.		transmitted through angels " the Law, which Moses used to instruct the Israelites.
[CONTENT_REMOVED]		See paragraphs 16, 17 )
How people go feel when God destroy this world?		What will be the response to the execution of this wicked system?
E good make all of us do wetin Paul talk.		Christians must train and exercise their powers of discernment.
And, Joseph na one of their leader. Na this position make am fit meet Pilate.		Joseph was therefore one of the leaders of his people, which explains how he could gain an audience with the Roman governor.
E love you and na wetin make am dey tell you sey: ' My pikin, show sey you get sense and my mind go sweet. ' ( Prov.		Respond to his loving appeal: " Be wise, my son, and make my heart rejoice. "
If we dey support other people with wetin we get, how e take show sey we dey ' use our sense '?		How does our freely giving show " practical wisdom "?
We be like Paul? We dey show for how we dey preach sey we thank for im favor? - Read Romans 1: 14 - 16.		Do we individually imitate Paul in showing gratitude for 's undeserved kindness by zealously sharing in the ministry? - Read Romans 1: 14 - 16.
Question From People Wey Dey Read Our Book		Questions From Readers
Learn How to Control Yourself		Cultivate Self - Control
Luke 18: 30 ) Whether we go live for heaven or earth, the hope wey we get fit be ' like anchor for our life; e dey sure and e strong well well. '		Whether heavenly or earthly, our hope can serve as " an anchor for the soul, both sure and firm. "
Why e be sey even with the sin wey dey our body, we fit still be friend?		What makes it possible for us to be 's friends even though we are imperfect?
How Thomas take show sey e dey patient when e dey teach im pikin?		How does one Christian father show patience in teaching his daughter?
Paul even go synagogue many times. E go there make e fit preach to people wey know the God of Abraham and wey e fit use the Law preach to. - Acts 9: 19, 20; 13: 5, 14 - 16; 14: 1; 17: 1, 2.		In fact, on many occasions Paul went to synagogues, where he could witness to people who knew of the God of Abraham and with whom Paul could reason on the basis of the Hebrew Scriptures. - Acts 9: 19, 20; 13: 5, 14 - 16; 14: 1; 17: 1, 2.
Put Mind for Things Wey Get Value		Set Your Heart on Spiritual Treasures
AS WE dey look the clock wey dey the television for convention, e dey show time wey dey count go down: five, four, three, two, one!		FIVE, four, three, two, one!
After one year, dem send us go Northern Ireland. We first go one town for there wey dem dey call Armagh. Later, we go another town wey dem dey call Newry.		Just over a year later, we were asked to go to Northern Ireland, first to Armagh and then to Newry, both mostly Catholic towns.
And e still dey help dem sabi how other people dey do things. E get one brother, im name na Alejandro.		Alejandro, who has moved several times, knows that the adjustment process cannot be rushed.
And even when the wahala come, na wetin dey for this Bible verse dem, still help me fit bear the wahala. " - Andriy, wey come from Ukraine.		These verses also helped me to remain calm during my trial. " - Andriy, from Ukraine.
And no other person fit really know the kind happiness wey dey im mind. ' ( Prov.		God 's Word states: " The heart knows its own bitterness, and no outsider can share in its joy. "
And people wey come the different school wey organization dey arrange dey stay im house. The sister talk sey: " I first dey fear because my house no too fine. Some of the things wey dey my house na secondhand.		A pioneer sister who hosted students attending various theocratic schools admitted: " Initially I was concerned because my accommodations are very modest, and I have secondhand furniture.
And since Luke na doctor, e fit don check am come see sey e no injure or faint, instead e don die.		Paul came downstairs and embraced the corpse, and then he made the dramatic announcement: " He is alive. "
And they learn about the kind love wey God show people when e send Jesus come die for us. - 1 John 4: 9.		They could thus learn of the love that God expressed when he provided the ransom. - 1 John 4: 9.
And wetin we suppose do when person invite us?		What can help us be good guests?
Around 1520, Lefvre translate Bible with French language so that plenty people fit read am.		During the 1520 ' s, Lefvre translated the Bible into French to make it available to the common people.
As dem dey go, e go get problem because e go lose like one fight.		He would face setbacks and at least one military defeat.
Because lie na one of the things wey Satan don de use fight, and e de work for Satan.		Because lies have been one of Satan 's most effective weapons.
Because of their age, that example no hard dem to understand. Dem understand am pass if to sey I just talk am for mouth.		That illustration was fitting for their age, and it engaged them in a way that passive learning might not have.
Before - before, Pakistan get West Pakistan ( today na Pakistan ) and East Pakistan ( today na Bangladesh ).		At first, Pakistan was composed of West Pakistan ( now Pakistan ) and East Pakistan ( now Bangladesh ).
Bible talk say they " wear the complete soldier uniform wey God de give. " - Read Ephesians 6: 10 - 12.		Like well - trained soldiers, they have " put on the complete suit of armor from God. " - Read Ephesians 6: 10 - 12.
But, talk say make we " de make peace with everybody. "		Yet, urges us to " be peaceable with all men. "
But even as things be, the advice wey dey Bible help us fit stay together. And really bless our work.		Still, applying the Bible 's advice, we worked out our differences and enjoyed success as pioneer partners.
But many brothers and sisters fit don suffer when war dey or when heavy rain or breeze scatter their property.		Their tests of faith have been different.
But the doctor and nurse need to make sure sey the person sickness no catch dem. Many of us just be like the doctor and nurse.		In doing so, however, they need to protect themselves so that they do not become infected with the disease they are seeking to treat.
Dem even allow dem to dey travel go anywhere for the country.		The exiles even had freedom to move about the country.
Dem even get different area wey dem dey preach. But we know sey no dey select. Later, black brothers and oyibo brothers come dey do things together.		But does not make racial distinctions, and before too long the congregations became racially integrated.
Dem fit don hear as dem dey read Bible when dem go church.		Of course, they may have heard passages read when they went to church.
Dew dey form small small. E dey cool body and e good for life.		Dew forms gradually and is refreshing and life - sustaining.
E be like sey the better things wey people bring from Egypt, dey among wetin dem contribute to take build the tabernacle. ( Ex.		When contributing for the building of the tabernacle in the wilderness, what the Israelites gave likely included what they had brought with them from Egypt.
E come ask me, sey: " For this my age, where you think sey I fit go?		Then he told me: " But where could I go at my age?
E get sometimes wey we go dey there for some week and we no fit send or receive letter.		Sometimes we went for weeks without being able to send or receive mail.
E good make love dey make the two of dem think about how the other person dey feel and wetin e need.		Loving consideration of the mate 's feelings and needs is essential.
E know sey time wey great tribulation go start don dey reach.		He has determined exactly when the end will come.
E no too get money, but e make sure say we get food, cloth, and place wey we go sleep.		He never made much money, but he kept a roof over our heads, clothes on our backs, and food in our stomachs - and he was always there for us.
E sey: " Graham dey carry shoulder. Na im problem be that.		The elder recalled: " Graham had a problem with pride.
E still teach im people how to show this better character. We see am for one of the law wey e give Israel people.		Consider the law given to Israel regarding the seizing of a man 's garment as security for a loan.
For February 2012, I fall break waist.		In February of 2012, I fell and broke my hip, and it became clear that I would need help.
For example, e fit help us get the kind character wey Jesus get, wey show sey e get God spirit.		For instance, it can help us to develop a Christlike personality, which is characterized by the fruitage of God 's spirit.
For example, im own brother wey no value things about God want kill am.		He had to put up with his fleshly - minded brother, Esau, who intended to kill him.
For example, one time wey things hard for Jesus, all im apostle run leave am.		For example, at a critical moment, the apostles abandoned Jesus.
For example, when Jesus dey this earth, God give am power to cure sickness wey doctor no fit cure. ( Matt.		Consider, for example, the fact that God enabled his Son to heal diseases that doctors could not cure.
For the second topic, we go see how we go take make our friendship with strong, and how we fit show for our life sey God spirit dey direct us.		Then in the second article, we will consider how we can cultivate spirituality and put it to work in our daily lives.
For this topic, we go talk about wetin show sey, wey be the God of order dey arrange things pass anybody.		In this article, we will discuss evidence that, the God of order, is the incomparable Organizer.
How take dey mold us now, and how e go continue to mold us for paradise?		How is teaching us today, and how will this education continue in the future?
If I see work or business wey go bring plenty money, I go quick collect am?		Should I get involved in this money - making proposal?
If to sey bird big reach human being, dem for dey chop pass us.		For their body weight, they consume proportionately more than humans.
Instead, we go dey put God Kingdom as the number one thing for our life. ( Matt.		We do so by upholding God 's righteousness, by being no part of Satan 's world, and by keeping Kingdom interests in first place.
Instead Bible tell us sey: " The person wey Jacob God dey help go happy. E dey put im hope for wey be im God. " - Ps.		Instead, it is as the psalmist wrote: " Happy is the one who has the God of Jacob as his helper, whose hope is in his God. " - Ps.
Jealousy fit make wetin God promise us no reach our hand. Some people example for Bible help us know this one.		Warning examples in the Bible remind us that jealousy can deprive us of the prize.
Jesus no only tell e apostles say they go de happy if they continue to preach. E still tell them why they need to love people from their heart.		After Jesus stated his desire that the joy experienced by the apostles might " be made full, " he explained to them the importance of showing self - sacrificing love.
Jesus teach us wetin suppose be the main thing for life.		Jesus set the standard in balancing secular interests and spiritual matters.
Job know sey na God arrange marriage so that husband and wife go dey together.		He viewed marriage as a sacred bond between a man and a woman.
Keep am well because na your life. "		Safeguard it, for it means your life. "
King Solomon write for Bible sey: " Word wey person talk for the correct time, good well well!		King Solomon wrote: " A word spoken at the right time - how good it is!
Make we no let another person choose wetin we go do.		We should not give someone else the responsibility to make decisions for us.
Na 1965 dem do the first international convention for where dem dey call Dublin for Ireland.		The first international convention in Ireland was held in Dublin in 1965.
Na better thing if person plan wetin e want use im life do for when e still dey young.		Setting theocratic goals early in life makes good sense.
Na im make am talk sey: ' E don happen! '		Therefore, he says: " They have come to pass! "
Na one island for north of Japan.		At first, we did not want him to go.
Na only God dey talk who go join fight the war and when dem go fight. - w15 - E 11 / 1, pp.		God alone determined who would engage in warfare and when. - w15 11 / 1, pp.
Na true sey favor dey make us get many blessing but make we no think sey that one na chance to dey sin anyhow.		While undeserved kindness from provides us with many blessings, we should not presumptuously think that he condones all conduct.
Na wetin apostle John do be that. E let Gaius know sey na good thing e dey do.		The apostle John surely encouraged Gaius and reassured him that he was doing what was right.
Na when we dey check whether we still dey side.		By ' testing whether we are in the faith. '
No let am stop you!		Do not give up!
No pretender fit deceive am, no place too dark wey God no go see.		No impostor can fool him; no shadow is so dark or deep that God 's limitless vision cannot pierce right to the heart of matters.
One man write sey: " Things dey better now because human being don tell theirself sey dem want make this world better. "		One report states: " The reason humanity is getting better is because humans have decided to make the world a better place. "
One newspaper for that area talk sey, all of dem be like people wey dey really serve God and e dey show for their face sey dem dey happy.		All seem to be very devout, " noted a local newspaper, " and yet extremely cheerful and jovial people. "
Paul give us the answer, e sey: ' Since e be sey because of the favor wey e give us make us get different different gift, if na to preach, make we dey preach well; or the person wey dey teach, make e teach well; or the person wey dey give advice, make e dey give advice; the person wey dey pity for other people, make e happy as e dey do am. ' ( Rom.		Paul answers: " Since, then, we have gifts that differ according to the undeserved kindness given to us. if it is a ministry, let us be at this ministry; or the one who teaches, let him be at his teaching; or the one who encourages, let him give encouragement;. the one who shows mercy, let him do it cheerfully. "
Paul talk about things wey go show sey we dey wear the new character. One of dem na, make we no dey do partial.		After exhorting us to put on the new personality, Paul goes on to describe impartiality as one striking characteristic of the new personality.
Paul tell Timothy sey: ' Continue to dey put your mind for how you dey read for where people dey, how you dey give advice, how you dey teach.		Paul urged Timothy: " Continue applying yourself to public reading, to exhortation, to teaching.
Person need to first learn well before e go fit teach well.		To be good teachers, we first have to be good students.
Person wey understand something dey know how one thing take concern another one.		Someone who has understanding can see how one fact relates to another.
So, e fit be sey na the thing wey dem dey use light fire the story dey talk about.		Thus, it may be that what is referred to is the equipment needed for producing fire.
So, papa and mama make una continue to dey make una faith strong.		So as parents, keep building your own faith.
So if they want remain as one, they go need to change the way them de think.		To be united, they would have to change their mind - set.
So when you dey do your own Bible study, no do am like person wey dey read book to pass exam.		As you do that, remember that study of the Bible is not a mere academic exercise.
Sometimes, I dey follow one brother go build people house so that I fit support myself.		I supported myself working part - time for a brother who was a builder.
Sometimes, we fit come even see sey the matter no be as we think am.		In some cases, we may come to realize that we were not the victim of an injustice after all.
Study Bible well, and take time to think about the things wey you read		Study God 's Word diligently, and meditate on what you read
THEIR PIONEER		PIONEERS
That one go make us carry body down and put ourself for God hand. - 1 Pet.		That realization will move us ' to humble ourselves under the mighty hand of God. ' - 1 Pet.
The best time to know wetin dey your pikin mind na when you and dem dey play or do things together.		It is best, in a relaxed setting, to invite your children to express their feelings.
The first person wey e give this freedom na Jesus im first Son, wey resemble am. ( Col.		The first one to receive this gift was his firstborn Son, " the image of the invisible God. "
They harsh and them de show theirself because of their power. I think say na so real man suppose dey.		The idea of what a man should be like, as presented in the movies and the social environment, influenced me a great deal.
They talk say: " If we allow this man continue like this, all of them go get faith for this man. And Roman people go come take our place and our country. "		If we let him go on this way, they will all put faith in him, and the Romans will come and take away both our place and our nation, " they said.
This one show sey love us, and e no dey do partial. You no go like to serve this kind God? - Acts 10: 34.		Does that not draw you even closer to our loving and impartial God? - Acts 10: 34.
Today, don show us sey e love us. E don bring us come im clean organization wey dey protect us. You think sey e make sense to allow any wicked person dey for this clean organization?		After we have been brought into the protective and loving care of God 's clean organization, we have the responsibility to help maintain it.
True true, no ever fail me.		Indeed, in more ways than I can recount, has never failed me.
We fit still learn how things take better for dem because dem make peace.		We learn about the results of their efforts and may thus be able to apply such points to some situations we encounter in life.
We happy sey no be so e be.		Thankfully, we do not face such a bleak situation.
We happy sey we dey among people wey dey serve.		We all agree that being part of the Christian congregation is a blessing.
Wetin ' dem want from servant be sey, make e be person wey dem fit trust. ' ( 1 Cor.		Today as well, " what is expected of stewards is that they be found faithful. "
Wetin servant for Bible time do wey make their faith strong?		How did 's ancient servants keep their faith strong?
Wetin be another thing wey you fit do make your light de shine? Make you de help your family and congregation dey as one.		Another way to let your light shine is by promoting unity in your family and in your congregation.
Wetin be the fourth thing wey we fit do so that the one mind wey people get go continue? We need to dey show love like.		A fourth way to promote unity is by showing love in imitation of, the God of love.
Wetin be the main reason why they write the Hebrew Scriptures? Na because want make this part for Bible help people, so that they go fit sabi and follow the Messiah when e come. ( Luke 24: 44; Gal.		s primary purpose for inspiring that section of the Scriptures was to identify the Messiah and lead God 's people to him.
Wetin go help us use our mind wait?		What will help us to be willing to wait patiently?
Wetin make people come dey see sey wetin church dey teach different from wetin dey Bible?		On what basis could sincere people question church teachings during the first few centuries of our Common Era?
Wetin we just talk about na some example of servant wey do wetin bad and wetin pain other people.		The above are but a few examples of individuals who did things that hurt others.
Wetin we need to remember anytime we want choose cloth wey we go wear?		What is a reasonable consideration as we think about what to wear?
When I dey 12 years, I go one convention wey dem use the language wey I dey speak for school.		When I was 12, I attended a convention in my school language.
When Jesus dey earth, e do everything wey talk. The way e take live im life show sey, na better thing for to give angels and human being law.		By his perfect life course on earth, Jesus proved that it is reasonable and righteous for to set standards for his intelligent creatures.
When money no dey ( Check paragraph 17 )		Low finances ( See paragraph 17 )
When the church no let dem read am out, dem go come send the letter give all the member for the church.		Where a public reading was forbidden, some sent copies to every member of the church.
When we get problem with our brothers.		Disputes.
When we still dey class for Gilead, sometimes Brother Martin dey take style ask me sey, " Erika, wetin that one mean for German? "		During class, Martin would sometimes whisper, " Erika, what does that mean in German? "
Which other bad character we need to comot hand from? Wetin Bible talk about am?		What practice is common, but what does the Bible say about it?
Why this police dem dey talk this kind thing?		Why do the man 's guards say such a thing?
Your light go shine if you de preach for people, de do everything to make people dey as one, and de always dey ready. This one go make you happy.		When you let your light shine - by inviting others to serve God, by conducting yourself in a way that promotes unity, and by maintaining a watchful attitude - you will find increased happiness.
Zechariah see one scroll wey dey fly for up. The scroll nearly long reach 30 feet ( 9 m ) and e wide reach 15 feet ( 4.5 m )!		Zechariah sees flying through the air a scroll nearly 30 feet ( 9 m ) long and 15 feet ( 4.5 m ) wide!
Make dem no dey argue with people.		Avoid arguing with householders.
[CONTENT_REMOVED]		See paragraphs 8 - 10 )
Three people wey talk sey dem be Job friend even tell am wetin pain am.		Then three false comforters arrived and attacked Job with cruel words, basically saying that God was giving him what he deserved!
This kind thing self happen to David, wey make am beg sey: ' No remember the bad things and the mistake wey I do when I young. ' ( Ps.		The psalmist David experienced a similar feeling and begged: " Do not remember the sins of my youth and my transgressions. "
So, don give human being chance to rule theirself.		Satan has also implied that no human at heart is loyal to God - that under sufficient pressure, anyone will reject 's rulership.
Because dem use wetin dem get take help other people, dem be friend. How this one dey make dem feel?		How do these friends of feel about making such sacrifices?
But one thing wey make New World Translation different from other Bible be sey, dem write God name for everywhere wey e suppose dey.		Significantly, the New World Translation restores God 's name to its rightful place in the Scriptures.
Explain how we come take understand small small sey Governing Body different from Watch Tower Society.		Relate how the Governing Body has been progressively distinguished from the Watch Tower Society.
How God Law take help dem?		How did God 's Word affect the leaders of God 's people?
For example, e get brothers wey dey give people seat for assembly or convention. Na true sey na dem dey first reach there.		For example, at our assemblies and conventions, attendants are on duty in the seating area before others are scheduled to enter.
Why we no dey praise people wey dey lead for religion as we dey do for government people?		Why do we make a distinction between government officials and religious leaders?
Na im make the brother wey dey give the talk for people wey want baptize, go ask dem question wey dem go answer.		For these reasons, baptism candidates are asked to confirm that they have dedicated themselves to to do his will.
But the time wey Devil come tell am sey make e change stone to bread when e dey hungry, e no gree.		Yet, he refused to turn stones into bread when he was hungry and was tempted by the Devil in the wilderness.
How person wey get cool temper dey show sey e get sense wey come from God?		In what way is a mild temper evidence of the wisdom from above?
Jesus see sey some of this people wey dey do bad ready to change.		Nevertheless, Jesus insightfully noted that at least some of these " tax collectors and sinners " wanted to change.
We no be like people for this world wey dey talk sey ' good na bad and bad na good. '		We refuse to join the ungodly and say: " Good is bad and bad is good. "
After I don preach to am different different times, e come believe sey wetin I dey tell am na true.		After I talked to him a few times, he agreed with what I was saying.
After Paul tell dem wetin dey im mind, dem no continue to tell am make e change im mind because dem know where dem suppose do reach. - Acts 21: 10 - 14.		On hearing this, the brothers modestly stopped objecting to Paul 's decision to go on to Jerusalem. - Acts 21: 10 - 14.
All this example don show sey dem fit trust God people ' for small thing. ' Dem dey use their money and property well.		The foregoing examples show how God 's people are " faithful in what is least, " that is, in their use of material wealth, which is inferior to spiritual riches.
And many of dem na young people.		Many are young people - teenagers and preteens.
Araceli dey 87 years, Felisa dey 91 years, and Ramoni dey 83 years.		Araceli is 87 years old, Felisa is 91, and Ramoni is 83.
Bible dey help us think well about wetin we dey hear and read.		If so, there are steps you can take to strengthen your faith and keep it strong.
Bible still tell us sey: " Make husband. love their wife as dem take love their body.		We also read in the Scriptures: " Husbands should love their wives as their own bodies.
Bible talk sey: ' Make woman dey wear better clothe wey go show sey dem get sense and dem no dey overdo am, no be to dey plait different different hairstyle or to dey wear gold or clothe wey cost well well but make dem dey dress theirself with better character like woman wey dey fear God. '		The apostle Paul offered this inspired counsel: " The women should adorn themselves in appropriate dress, with modesty and soundness of mind, not with styles of hair braiding and gold or pearls or very expensive clothing, but in the way that is proper for women professing devotion to God, namely, through good works. "
But, still correct Job for the things wey e talk.		Yet, God saw the need to correct Job 's thinking.
But, you think sey we fit?		Is that really possible?
But my papa no happy for wetin I dey do. E come tell me sey, " You too small to preach.		My doing so did not please my father, who said, " You are too young to preach.
But wetin happen, fit make dem stop to get joy, and peace fit no dey congregation again.		Still, each had the potential for causing lasting emotional and spiritual injury to those involved.
But you don ever think how Romans 5: 12 fit help you know whether you dey do wetin like? And, how e fit help you continue to dey put mind for the better things wey God don promise us?		But how often do you think of Romans 5: 12 with regard to your own standing before, your actions, and your future prospects?
But you go tell am about the hope wey you get sey people wey don die go come back to life?		But would you mention the resurrection as one of your most cherished beliefs?
Caiaphas wait make night reach before e send soldiers go arrest Jesus.		Caiaphas sent soldiers to arrest Jesus under the cover of night.
Dem go praise God and Jesus sey: " Our God wey sitdown for the throne, na you and the Lamb save us. " ( Rev.		The Bible foretold that " a great crowd, which no man [ would be ] able to number, out of all nations and tribes and peoples and tongues " would shout: " Salvation we owe to our God, who is seated on the throne, and to the Lamb. "
Dem later ask me sey since we no give the talk for open place, whether we go count am as public talk!		Afterward, the brothers asked whether this could be reported as a public meeting, since it was not held in a public place!
Demons believe sey God dey, but dem no get true faith.		The demons believe that God exists, but they have no true faith.
E dey vex for us sometimes. So before we go call am, we dey pray make help us make we no vex for am back.		Before calling to check on him, my husband and I would pray that help us not to respond in kind to angry reactions.
E preach to many people and give dem many of our book dem.		She witnessed to many people and placed much literature.
E still talk sey: ' When I dey tell other young sisters sometimes sey, " Carry your bag follow me make we go do the work wey sweet pass for life! ", you go see am for my face sey I dey happy.		Ever since, I have been serving as a missionary in Japan. " Anita adds: " At times, with a twinkle in my eyes, I tell younger sisters, ' Put on your backpack and join me in the greatest adventure of all time! '
E want make dem believe sey nobody fit save dem from Assyria hand.		He said, in effect, ' Nothing can protect you from Assyria.
Faith no be just to know wetin get for mind for us.		Faith involves much more than a mental understanding of God 's purpose.
For Hebrew language, Shema na the first word for Deuteronomy 6: 4.		This prayer is called the Shema, which is the first word of the verse.
For World War I, wetin happen between the Bible Students and fake religion?		During World War I, what was the relationship between God 's people and Babylon the Great?
For World War I, why people need to correct some things, and wetin we no suppose think?		Why did 's servants need correction and discipline during World War I, but what does that not indicate?
For example, dem ' dey read daily text together every morning when dem gather to eat their morning food. ' And ' na every day the pioneers dey go their territory wey dey different different place for the city. '		The [ day 's ] text was discussed each morning at the breakfast table, " and " the pioneers went daily to their territory in various parts of the city. "
For example, wetin mama or papa go do if im pikin talk to am anyhow?		For example, suppose a child speaks disrespectfully to one of his parents.
For some area, e dey hard to see black people and oyibo people dey serve God together for the same place. Other people dey see am as bad thing.		In some areas, the gathering of these different races at a religious meeting is unheard of or is looked down on by others.
For some area, if person invite you the first time, na normal thing to sofri tell the person sey you no go fit come. And you fit still talk like that the second time.		And in some cultures, it is expected that guests politely decline the first invitation or two; in others, to decline comes across as unappreciative.
For this world, many people no like the correction wey God dey give.		In the world, discipline, including self - discipline, is often sneered at.
How Gaius Take Help Im Brothers, May		Accept God 's Greatest Gift? No.
How go feel about wetin dem do?		How would he view their honesty?
How Zechariah message take help God people that time?		How, though, did Zechariah 's message affect the Jews in his day?
How you go take copy Jesus example?		How can we personally imitate Christ?
I regret why I promise them.		I promise, " I said.
If any of dem don dey get this kind mind or dey ' eye ' person wey no be their husband or wife, make dem quick comot am for mind.		Any tendency toward being attracted to this or toward sexual interests of any sort outside marriage should be firmly resisted.
If dem see any problem, dem go quick quick tell the people wey dey inside the town.		They were to alert the city 's inhabitants of any approaching danger.
If we make our life simple now, we go fit ' hold the real life ' wey dey come tight. - 1 Tim.		Simplifying our life now will help us to " get a firm hold on the real life " yet to come. - 1 Tim.
If we think about wetin happen to Jehoshaphat, e go help us.		Meditating on what happened to Jehoshaphat can help.
If we want get life wey no go end, we must endure go reach the end.		To receive the gift of everlasting life, we must endure to the end.
Instead, na Jesus Christ be our Leader.		In contrast, we are proud to tell those who inquire that our Leader is not an imperfect human.
don help many brothers and sisters to fit go dey preach for this kind place.		With 's help, thousands of brothers and sisters have succeeded in overcoming obstacles that hindered them from expanding their ministry.
hate this kind character.		He hates " haughty eyes. "
like the way Job take serve am well, even when e dey suffer. And after, come let other people know. - Job 42: 7, 8.		After Job responded to God 's reproof and corrected his view, expressed to others his approval of Job 's faithfulness under trial. - Job 42: 7, 8.
Jesus put mind for the better things wey dey front, if e endure		Jesus focused on the rewards of his endurance
Land and House: Person fit contribute land or house as gift to Witness branch office for im country. But for some people wey still dey stay for their house when dem make this kind contribution, na when dem die, the branch office go take am.		Real Estate: Salable real estate donated to an entity used by 's, either by making an outright gift or, in the case of residential property, by reserving a life estate to the donor, who can continue to live in the residence during his or her lifetime.
Later, e come become regular pioneer.		Despite obstacles, he kept his eye on the goal of becoming a regular pioneer and eventually reached it.
Make clean your dirty comot.		Let refine you.
Make we first see how take show sey e dey pity people. We go still talk about how other people don take get this character.		First, take time to examine how has shown compassion and how others have shown it.
Many of our brothers and sisters don choose time wey go favor dem to fit read Bible everyday. Some dey do am for morning or afternoon or even for night.		Many of 's people have found creative ways to make time for daily Bible reading, whether at the start of their day or at the end or somewhere in between.
Many young brothers and sisters dey use their mind do full - time service.		Many young brothers and sisters are zealously entering the full - time service.
Mary example really teach us sey e good make we dey put wetin God want as the number one thing for our life.		Does not Mary 's example help us to think of how we can put God 's will first in our life?
My papa get two barbing salon, and the doctor na one of im customer.		He owned two barbershops in Wichita, and the doctor was one of his clients!
Na English e use give the talk. After, I come use Tagalog language take explain am give the brothers.		He spoke in English, and afterward I gave a summary of his talk in Tagalog.
Na around 1980 my family start to learn about, and na my wife first hear the good news.		When the precious truth about finally reached my own family in the 1980 ' s, my wife, Mairambubu, heard it first.
Na for Babylon some still learn handwork and some of dem turn to rich people.		Some Jews even became prosperous.
Na if dem dey listen to and allow am to help dem train their pikin.		Listen to.
Na im all of dem come go preaching.		Then the group went into the field.
Na im make, from that time, anointed brothers fit be Governing Body member even if dem no dey among brothers wey dey direct matter for Watch Tower Society.		The Governing Body henceforth included anointed brothers who were not Society directors.
Na true sey e get some people wey dem carry for mind write some part for Bible.		The Bible clearly says that " all Scripture is inspired of God and beneficial. "
Na when I dey this circuit I start to think about Nora. Nora first start to pioneer for Bulacan.		It was during that assignment that I began to think about Nora, who had started pioneering back in Bulacan.
Nathan come tell am sey: ' Do wetin dey your mind, because the true God dey with you. '		Nathan replied: " Do whatever is in your heart, for the true God is with you. "
No be all the king wey rule for Israel do wetin God want.		Not all the kings who ruled God 's ancient people followed God 's instructions.
No think sey your brother or sister get am for mind to make you vex. E fit be sey na mistake, or na you dey think another thing.		Do not assume that your brother set out deliberately to hurt you; give him the benefit of the doubt.
One type of iron wey Roman soldiers de wear for chest that time, get plenty iron wey they join ontop each other. They bend the iron so that e go cover their chest.		One type of breastplate worn by a Roman soldier in the first century consisted of overlapping horizontal strips of iron.
Our children don help many people learn about. Our belle sweet us to see how dem dey thank our children.		We saw the gratitude of those who had been helped by our children to learn about.
Peter answer am sey: ' Dem write part of am for Aramaic. '		Peter replied, " Part of it was written in Aramaic. "
Satan still dey control this world and sin dey our body. Because of this one, we go continue to get problem.		Trials and tribulations will continue as long as we are imperfect and are in this system under Satan 's control.
Shares, Stocks and Bonds: When person buy shares or e get stocks and bonds wey dey bring money for am, e fit contribute am as gift to Witness branch office for im country, or e go write agreement sey make dem give am to the branch office when e die.		Stocks and Bonds: Stocks and bonds donated to an entity used by 's as an outright gift or by means of a written agreement to transfer on death. Real Estate: Salable real estate donated to an entity used by 's, either by making an outright gift or, in the case of residential property, by reserving a life estate to the donor, who can continue to live in the residence during his or her lifetime.
So, if you feel sey congregation no treat you well, wetin you go do?		How will you react if you believe that you have experienced some wrong in the congregation or in your dealings with a fellow Christian?
So, no matter the kind work wey we dey do for, make all of us do wetin we fit do to support Kingdom.		Whatever our circumstances, then, let all of us work to further the interests of 's magnificent Kingdom.
So e good make we dey think about wetin Bible talk before we choose wetin we go do.		Of course, it would be inappropriate to ask others to make a decision for us.
So if you want run go meet to help you, you need to get faith for Jesus sacrifice.		To take refuge in, then, exercise faith in Jesus ' sacrifice.
That time wey I dey study the woman, the study make my faith strong.		That study had a profound spiritual effect on me.
The angel talk sey the woman na " Wickedness. "		The angel explains that the woman in the container is " Wickedness. "
The love wey big pass and wey dey help us pass na the one wey we get for God.		Our shared love for God is the most valuable and upbuilding love of all.
The time wey e born the pikin, one Witness person come dey study Bible with am.		At the time of the birth, one of 's began to study the Bible with the woman.
Then go remove dem. Na God Kingdom go dey rule and e go bring better come.		Rule by God through his Messianic Kingdom will succeed, and integrity - keepers will have proved that humans can take their stand for God 's rulership.
Things like leprosy, dead body and wetin dey comot for man or woman body.		It also gave instructions on how impurities could be removed.
This one fit make give dem chance to repent so that dem go learn the truth wey dey Bible. - 2 Tim.		In turn, " may give them repentance leading to an accurate knowledge of truth. " - 2 Tim.
This world wey Satan dey control, get three part. Dem be: politics, religion, and business.		Jesus understood that the current economic system would not change until God 's Kingdom comes.
We come talk sey: " We go do am! "		We 'll do that!
We fit understand why Jesus repeat to the apostles say they need to dey as one.		Jesus ' emphasis on unity is understandable.
Wetin Bible talk about this matter dey clear. E talk sey: ' Papa, make una dey use way correct [ una pikin ] and dey teach dem. ' ( Eph. 6: 4; ftn. )		The Bible is clear on this subject when it says: " Fathers,. go on bringing [ your children ] up in the discipline and admonition [ instruction; guidance ] of. "
Wetin be the four things wey Jesus want make we do wey dey Matthew 28: 19, 20?		According to Matthew 28: 19, 20, what four things must Jesus ' followers do?
Wetin change im mind?		What changed her view?
Wetin we go learn for the next topic?		What will we consider in the next article?
Wetin we learn from Hannah example?		What do we learn from Hannah 's example?
When ' strangers ' dey place wey their language congregation no dey, make dem join the congregation wey dey use the language of the new area wey dem dey. ( Ps.		When " foreign residents " live far from other who speak their language, they need to associate with a local - language congregation.
When I remember the kind strong mind wey give my papa that day, I dey thank am.		I look back with appreciation for the courage that gave my father.
When we dey forgive other people as Jesus talk, all of us go continue to get one mind for congregation.		We protect and preserve our precious unity when we forgive others as Jesus taught us to do.
Which problem many refugee don face?		What trials have many refugees experienced?
Why e good as Bible dey for different different language?		Exerts Power " Why is it significant that the Bible continues to be available in more and more languages?
Why sister Nadia happy sey e stay the congregation wey dey use im papa and mama language?		Why is a sister named Nadia glad she stayed in the foreign - language congregation?
Why we talk sey Romans chapter 8 still concern Christians wey go stay for earth?		Why do we conclude that Romans chapter 8 should be of interest to those with the earthly hope?
You fit still remember other example wey be like this one.		You may know of similar instances of deliberate deception.
You no think sey all this one na better reason why we suppose follow Jesus example? - Rom.		Do you not agree that these benefits give us good reason to " put on the Lord Jesus Christ "? - Rom.
paragraph 1 ) No be im real name be that.		paragraph 1 ) Some names have been changed.
Make sin no be una oga, because na favor dey control una. ' - ROM.		Sin must not be master over you, seeing that you are. under undeserved kindness. " - ROM.
Dem know sey Paul and Silas na Jew people. Na this one make dem think sey Paul and Silas no fit get the right wey Rome people get? We no really know.		Could this be why they do not even think it possible that these Jews, Paul and Silas, could be Roman citizens?
This kind thing dey happen to many papa and mama today.		Even so, Samuel could maintain his own integrity and please his heavenly Father,.
Even though sey people try put sand sand for our garri, e no work. We do the convention, and we enjoy am.		Despite intense opposition on all fronts, the convention was a great success.
Our Yearbook for 1949 talk sey, even though sey things no easy for the brothers at all, that one no dey stop dem to go assembly. Anytime wey dem go assembly come back, na about the assembly dem go dey talk about, even though sey e don tey wey dem go. The question wey the brothers dey always ask na, " When We Get Assembly Again? " Wetin the yearbook talk na true.		A 1949 branch report from Mexico stated about the brothers: " The difficult times they have do not dampen their Theocratic spirit because each assembly we have is one of their main topics of conversation for a long time afterward and the question the brethren continually ask is, When are we going to have another assembly? "
This one mean sey dem no go join other people do Passover. And dem go miss other things wey dem dey do around that time.		Such a condition would require them to be secluded during the Passover week and to miss all its observances and celebrations.
District convention for Nyzhnya Apsha, Ukraine		District convention in Nyzhnya Apsha, Ukraine, 2012
You go know why e good to dey talk word wey dey make person strong, if you remember how that kind word don help you before.		You know how important the counsel to encourage one another is if you recall a time when words of encouragement lifted your spirits.
Our Faith Go Make Bless Us		Being Faithful Leads to God 's Approval
Na so e still be today. If we use all our mind support work, other people go praise am!		Likewise today, may your volunteer spirit move all those who benefit from it to " praise! "
E no go let wetin Satan do change wetin E get for mind for us and the earth.		He will not allow Satan 's rebellion to derail His purpose for mankind.
E clear sey, if we let our mind control us when we want choose wetin to do, we fit no choose well.		Clearly, we could easily be deceived by our emotions if we allow them to prevail when we are making important decisions.
Adam no only trowey the better life wey God give am, but e still carry sin and death give im children.		Adam not only lost a marvelous future for himself but also handed down to his children imperfection, sin, and death.
After the meeting wey Christians do for Pentecost time for the year 33, dem no stop to dey do meeting.		After meeting together on Pentecost of the year 33, Christians met regularly to worship.
All this things dey make people vex and even tire for life.		While such wrongful imprisonments are a cause of frustration and even anger, Christians may find another type of injustice even more difficult to bear.
And I come want use my life do more work for because of the love wey dem show me.		Their personal interest fostered in me a real desire to set theocratic goals.
And because of this one, dem come stop to build the temple. Wetin come dey their mind na to build their own house and to plant wetin their family go chop.		Discouraged by the many challenges and difficulties, the people left off building the temple and began looking after their own homes and cultivating their fields.
And before you know, some people wey we dey teach Bible, and people wey no dey come meeting before, come start to dey come, na so the congregation come dey grow.		Eventually, some Bible students, as well as some inactive ones, began coming to the meetings, and before long we had a thriving congregation.
And every day I go make sure sey I do wetin I promise. ' - Ps.		So let us happily ' sing praises to 's name forever as we pay our vows day after day. ' - Ps.
And everytime wey we pray, the peace wey God dey give, dey guide our heart and mind. " - Read Philippians 4: 6, 7.		Every single time, the peace of God truly guarded our hearts and minds. " - Read Philippians 4: 6, 7.
And when elders dey give children work, e good to look their age and wetin dem fit do.		Elders can also include parents and their children in Kingdom Hall projects, giving tasks to youths in keeping with their age and abilities.
Another thing be sey, e no talk to Ruth anyhow even though sey Ruth na stranger but e talk wetin make Ruth happy. - Ruth 2: 8 - 10, 13, 14.		In addition, Boaz did not speak down to the poor foreign woman but, instead, reassured her. - Ruth 2: 8 - 10, 13, 14.
As people wey dey ' wait to be son, to release dem from [ their human ] body, ' God give dem im spirit. ( Rom.		They receive " the spirit " as ones " waiting for adoption as sons, the release from [ their fleshly ] bodies. "
Because we dey make mistake sometimes, dem dey use Bible correct us.		Being imperfect, we all receive Scriptural counsel at times.
Bible help us know sey David old and e die.		God 's Word is plain that David did grow old.
Both people wey be Witness, and people wey no be Witness dey stay there. Because of this one, for October 2013, Governing Body arrange wetin go help brothers for South Africa know each other well.		Hence, to encourage our brothers to " widen out, " in October 2013 the Governing Body approved a special arrangement to help the brothers to get to know one another better.
But, allow Adam, wey be im first pikin for this earth, to give the animals name.		However, reserved the joy of naming those creatures for his first human son.
But, for the year 49 after Jesus time, holy spirit come help the brothers wey dey direct the work to know wetin dem go do.		For example, in 49 C.E., holy spirit guided the governing body to make a decision regarding the issue of circumcision.
But dem dey talk about the law wey dem make by theirself wey be sey, person go dey pour water for their hand before dem chop.		As a ritual, the rabbis required that water be poured over their hands prior to eating.
But many refugee don hear the good news about God Kingdom for the first time because we get brothers and sisters wey dey preach well well. We thank this brothers and sisters for wetin dem dey do. ( Matt.		Thanks to zealous in the lands receiving refugees, thousands of refugees are hearing " the word of the Kingdom " for the first time.
David get other friend wey no leave am when things hard for am.		David had other associates who loyally stood by him in difficult times.
Dem fit ask theirself sey: ' I dey do wetin go make people wey dey around me serve well?		They can ask themselves: ' Do I contribute to the spirituality of those around me?
Dem fit dey fear sey God go punish us when we die.		They may even fear for our eternal welfare.
E dey let us use the freedom wey e don give us take choose by ourself whether we go serve am. ( Josh. 24: 15; Eccl.		In line with the free will that he grants us, he respects our responsibility and right to ' choose for ourselves ' whether we will serve him.
E die so that we fit enjoy life wey no go end. - Matt.		Jesus did not die for the birds of heaven, but he did die for us so that we might enjoy unending life. - Matt.
E don pioneer for 20 years and e talk say: " I de happy say de give us reward for the work wey we de do. "		Says Matilda, a pioneer for 20 years: " It gives me joy to know that rewards our efforts. "
E fit be things wey ' fit make dem shame now ' and wey fit make dem no get life. ( Rom.		Their past way of life may have included " things of which [ they ] are now ashamed " and that would have merited death.
E go help our children and new people see sey e good make dem dey contribute to support work. And this one go make bless dem.		By word and example, we have the privilege of training our children and new ones to appreciate how they can have a share and how they, as a result, can enjoy many blessings.
E no even think am two times!		She did not even think of doing otherwise.
E sey, " the law of the spirit wey dey give life together with Jesus Christ, don free you from the law of sin and death. " ( Rom.		He explained to his fellow Christians: " For the law of the spirit that gives life in union with Christ Jesus has set you free from the law of sin and of death. "
E still get some brothers and sisters wey never marry because dem want marry only person " wey dey serve God, " as Bible talk. We need to encourage dem. ( 1 Cor.		Brothers and sisters who remain single because they want to obey the admonition to marry " only in the Lord " make up another group that merits encouragement.
E talk sey, " I come pray to make e help me go stay area wey dem dey speak Tandroy language. "		He says, " I prayed to to help me move to the Tandroy - speaking region. "
E want make we choose wetin we go use our life do. ( Deut.		He wants us to choose our own course in life.
Even if people marriage dey scatter for this last days, we fit still enjoy our own.		Although we are living in very trying times and marital relationships are failing all around us, it is possible for us to make marriage happy and successful.
For example, even though sey Joshua don dey serve God well for many years, still tell Moses sey make e tell am better word wey go make am strong.		Consider Joshua. He had served God faithfully for many years.
For example, you go learn to work well so that nobody go injure. And you go still learn how to obey people wey dey direct the work.		Theocratic construction work is also educational, as it teaches you to be safety conscious, to be a diligent worker, and to cooperate with those in oversight.
For this topic, we go learn how our 2017 yeartext go help us trust sey na only fit help us no matter the problem wey we get.		This article discusses how our yeartext for 2017 encourages us to look to for help when faced with challenges.
Get time wey you take dey relax every day.		Make room in your schedule for some quiet time each day.
How we fit show sey we dey follow elders advice?		How can we show our support for the direction we receive from the elders?
I come baptize for December 31, 1934. "		On December 31, 1934, the day came for this momentous event in my life. "
If person curse us, or do wetin pain us, e no easy for us to control ourself make we no vex.		It is not easy to control our emotions when we feel that we have been slighted or treated unjustly.
If person dey fight and e want win, wetin e go do? E go dey think about wetin make am start that fight.		To be successful, those who are contending must not lose sight of their reason for struggling.
If the disciples of Jesus continue to fight for position, they no go fit dey as one again. But no be only that one fit divide them.		Desire for prominence, however, was not the only potential cause of disunity among Christ 's disciples.
If we dey choose better things, e go show sey we dey copy Jesus.		Those decisions will reveal that we strive to be followers of Christ.
If we do everything wey we fit do to allow God spirit direct us, we go gain like this brother.		We can enjoy similar blessings if we make spiritual progress our priority.
Im apostles run leave am.		Yet, what happened when he was arrested?
Im dream mean sey Pharaoh go release am from prison and put am for the position wey e dey before.		Joseph explained that the cupbearer would be restored to his former position in Pharaoh 's court.
JESUS talk for Bible sey ' many people no go get love again. ' Wetin e talk dey among the things wey show sey ' the end don dey near. '		ONE facet of the sign that Jesus gave regarding " the conclusion of the system of things " was that " the love of the greater number [ would ] grow cold. "
Jehoshaphat always want know wetin want make e do.		He usually looked to God for direction.
don draw us near body, and we don still near im Son.		There is one way that all Christians have tasted 's goodness.
first talk about how e take dey pity for people.		The first ones that he listed were mercy and compassion.
get how e want make people wey dey serve am live their life, so make we dey happy to do wetin want.		He has high standards, and we happily strive to reflect those standards.
wey sabi us well know wetin go help us fit endure		who fully understands us, knows exactly what we need in order to endure
Make Dem Praise Because You Use Your Mind Support Im Work!		May Do You Share 's Sense of Justice?
Make we carry our mind go wetin fit don happen that day.		Let us go back in time and reconstruct in our minds what could well have happened at that event.
Make we come see wetin we fit learn from three people wey serve for Bible time wey dem no treat well.		Let us reflect on three examples of injustice that occurred among 's people in Bible times.
Make we see one example.		Consider an example.
Make we see two reason.		Consider two important reasons.
My sister still want make we go.		I would feel worse if you didn 't go.
Na cleaner work we dey do for the convent.		At the convent, our job was cleaning.
Na money! The money reach am travel go Antandroy back, and e still reach am take start small yogurt business.		It was a sum of money large enough for him to travel back to the Antandroy area and to start a small business selling yogurt.
Na wetin we must do be that if we want make God show us favor and if we no want make sin be our oga.		That is vital if we are to say that we have accepted God 's undeserved kindness and that ' sin is not master over us. '
Nobody fit sey na im make all this things happen.		No human can take credit for this.
One of them wey Paul really love na Epaenetus. And e talk about Tryphaena and Tryphosa. E say they be women wey they work hard for God.		He greeted some who are essentially unknown today - " my beloved Epaenetus " as well as " Tryphaena and Tryphosa, women who are working hard in the Lord. "
Paul come talk sey, ' the peace wey God dey give pass anything wey person fit understand. '		But notice that " the peace of God. surpasses all understanding. "
Preaching for Transcarpathia no easy because Witness plenty for there.		Of course, our brothers and sisters face some unusual challenges when preaching in an area that has such a high publisher - to - population ratio.
Remember say for the example wey Jesus give, e talk say dey like the caretaker, or the farmer wey e plant grapes.		Note that Jesus compared his Father, to a cultivator, or gardener, who grows grapes.
Ruth example show sey this one na true.		The experience of faithful Ruth bears that out.
So, make we use our freedom dey praise and make we let other people choose wetin dem want. This one go show sey we happy for this better gift wey don give us - freedom!		May we continue to show our appreciation for this precious gift by using it in a way that honors God and by respecting the way that others choose to use their gift.
So, no stop to dey fight, continue to dey try, no tire.		Keep struggling. Keep contending. Keep persevering.
So, we be people wey Christ send wey dey stand for am, like sey God dey use us beg una.		Therefore, we are ambassadors substituting for Christ, as though God were making an appeal through us.
So anytime we dey face wahala, e good to always put the main thing for mind. Make we remember to support as King.		Therefore, we do well to remind ourselves regularly of the importance of supporting God 's sovereignty when we face difficult circumstances.
Tell yourself sey you no go ever leave. Continue to trust and support people wey dey direct us, even if dem make mistake. ( 1 Thess.		Be determined to stick to 's organization and loyally support the leadership he provides - no matter what imperfections may surface.
That time, dem dey marry pass one person. But the Law wey give dem dey direct their marriage.		The basic marriage practices of patriarchal times, including polygamy, were regulated by the Mosaic Law.
The Law wey give Israel people dey help us know the kind person wey be. E still dey help us know the things wey want make we dey do.		The Mosaic Law reflected a " framework of the knowledge and of the truth " about and his righteous principles.
The big shield wey be faith ( Check paragraph 12 - 14 )		The large shield of faith ( See paragraphs 12 - 14 )
The brother talk sey: ' Many times, things wey we no plan dey happen. Nobody know tomorrow, and life no easy.		Life is unpredictable at times, uncertain, and even hard to deal with, " he said.
The people wey go rule with Jesus as king and priest for one thousand years, na 144,000 people. Dem go comot sin from human being body.		During the Thousand Year Reign, Jesus and his 144,000 associate kings and priests will bring faithful humans to perfection.
The sister really want pikin, but pikin no gree come.		Then she entered the change of life.
The teachers for the school no happy. Dem even threaten me and dey lie give me so that I go change my mind.		The school staff was not happy and tried using intimidation and lies to make me change my mind.
The truth be sey, no matter wetin government talk, na give us the work to preach.		Of course, what imperfect men decide does not ' legally establish ' the good news in a complete sense.
This brother dey teach for Gilead School that time, and e later become Governing Body member.		He was an instructor at the Bible School of Gilead, and later he served as a member of the Governing Body.
Today, many Witness people dey the area. E dey really make me happy well well.		It is a great joy to know that there are now many in that area.
Today, we no dey follow the Law wey give Israel people.		As Christians, we are not under the Law covenant.
True true, e clear sey don give us many many advice from Bible and other things wey fit make life better for us.		Clearly, has given us an abundance of provisions to fill our " spiritual need. "
We fit still enjoy life wey no go end.		The ransom also makes it possible for us to have the opportunity to live forever in happiness.
We know from Bible sey no dey save all im servant like that.		Yet, Milan shares how he felt.
We no go put mind for wetin we fit do, especially if na matter or problem wey we don handle before.		Especially when we are faced with a familiar situation or problem, we have to be careful not to rely on ourselves.
We over happy because our fine character dey make people know, even for prison.		Our hearts swelled with gratitude. Even in prison our Christian integrity could bring praise to.
We see disfellowship as wetin take dey correct person wey e love; and the correction no dey pass as e suppose be.		We viewed disfellowshipping as divine discipline and were convinced that disciplines out of love and to the proper degree.
Wetin Paul warn brothers for Galatia about?		Of what did Paul have to warn the Galatians?
Wetin dem choose no make dem get wetin Satan talk.		Their choice did not bring them what Satan said it would.
Wetin people today like to do pass na to dey sleep with different different man and woman, to dey fight and to dey pursue money.		Their lives are focused on sex, violence, and money.
Wetin we go gain for front if we dey use our freedom well?		What glorious future awaits those who now use their God - given freedom wisely?
Wetin you go do to settle with am?		What positive steps can you take to make peace?
What about people wey no serve at all?		What about people who never served?
When I dey 17 years, I start to serve for Bethel wey dey Brooklyn		At age 17, I began my service at Brooklyn Bethel
When I dey there, I dey always pray, and sing Kingdom melody. I still dey think about how I go take preach again when dem release me.		To maintain peace of heart during that time, I constantly prayed, sang Kingdom songs, and imagined how I would preach if I were free again.
When people praise us, make we do wetin Jesus talk.		How will he react to the praise?
When we know sey ' everybody go carry im own load, ' we go let other people use their freedom choose wetin dem want.		When we recognize that each Christian must " carry his own load, " we will respect the right that others have to use their own gift of free will.
When we know where we suppose do reach, e go help us ' continue to dey win bad thing with good thing. '		Modesty can also help us to " keep conquering the evil with the good. "
Where insect no fit chop am, and e no fit rotten. And where thief no fit enter. " - Matt.		Rather, store up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust consumes, and where thieves do not break in and steal. " - Matt.
Why we need to do good to people wey just join our congregation?		Why may those who are new to your congregation need hospitality?
You go come dey value the time wey you take dey study Bible and dey sofri think about wetin God talk. - 1 Tim.		Indeed, you will find yourself cherishing your quiet times when you are absorbed in 's precious thoughts. - 1 Tim.
e dey tell Peter sey make e put things wey concern God as number one thing for life.		he was reminding Peter of the need to put spiritual things first in his life.
Make una no quarrel with each other for road. ' ( Gen.		Do not become upset with one another on the way.
As the elders for Jerusalem dey direct the work, angels still put hand so that many people go hear the good news.		Moreover, angels actively promoted and accelerated the preaching work that the governing body was overseeing.
E don give us one special gift wey be im book, the Bible.		He has given us a very precious gift - his own book, the Bible.
James still show sey to just believe and to get faith na two different things.		James goes on to show the clear difference between mere belief and the exercising of one 's faith.
Remember sey that time, God dey allow people marry pass one wife.		Keep in mind that this was at a time when God tolerated polygamy.
You believe sey na choose you to come serve am?		Do you feel that those words apply to you?
This one help us know sey people wey love, and wey dey do wetin e talk fit dey sure of two things when dem dey face wahala: ( 1 ) God no go allow their problem big sotey dem no fit bear am, and ( 2 ) ' e go help ' dem.		In view of his past record of faithfulness, those who love him and obey him can trust that he will keep this twofold promise regarding trials they may face: ( 1 ) He will not allow any trial to develop to a point that would make it impossible to bear, and ( 2 ) " he will. make the way out " for them.
dey always help people wey dey serve am, even if dem need to wait reach when dem go fit make dem regular pioneer, ministerial servant or elder.		always supports his faithful servants, even though he may allow them to wait for privileges or a favorable change of circumstances.
Some of our brother and sister family people don pursue dem comot for house. E fit be sey na their papa, mama, brother or sister pursue dem.		Some in the congregation have been rejected by their close family members, such as their parents or their brothers or sisters.
As time dey go, how language take change?		How do languages change over time?
How we fit do - am?		How can we do this in practical ways?
Wetin Bible talk about this matter, and which question dem we go talk about?		What does the Bible teach us about our freedom of choice, and what questions will we consider?
Wetin we fit do to help new publishers to know how to teach and preach wetin dey Bible?		How can we help new publishers to improve their skills as teachers of Bible truth?
Dem still talk sey this IUD wey get copper dey affect where pikin dey grow for woman belle ( womb ).		Moreover, copper - containing IUDs are said to alter the lining of the uterus.
Wetin Josiah do?		How did the king react?
Wetin that Bible verse talk still concern us today.		That prophetic warning also applies to our time.
So, if no dey allow us face some kind problem because e know sey we no go fit bear am, that one no show sey wetin Satan talk na true?		If prevented us from facing certain trials because he deemed them to be more than we could bear, would that not add weight to Satan 's charge that we serve God out of self - interest?
Person fit stop to serve God, if this kind thing happen to am.		It is common for a person in that situation to give up.
So, if we see ourself dey ask the same question sometimes, make we no let am surprise us.		So we should not be surprised if we find ourselves at times asking the very same question.
As e be for many place today, na bad things and bad character full Ephesus that time.		Like many cities today, first - century Ephesus was filled with vice.
I still tell am sey, " I want do wetin I promise. "		I added, " I need to fulfill my vow to God. "
Make we self be like Paul. Make we no ever play with wetin do for us as e free us from sin and death.		Following Paul 's example, we too should never take for granted that liberated us from the bondage of sin and of death.
But if papa and mama no dey speak the language wey their children sabi speak, e fit hard dem to teach their children Bible.		But a language barrier can make it difficult for you to teach your children the truth.
Abeg, call the branch office for your country if you want know how you go take contribute.		To learn the name of the primary legal entity used by 's in your country, please contact the branch office.
Another way to remember the Governing Body, na to put our body for the preaching work.		Another way that we remember the Governing Body is by exerting ourselves in the preaching work.
Anything wey dey worry us now na for small time, only if we put mind for all the better things wey don promise us.		Discouragement is temporary if we focus on 's promises.
Apostle Paul talk say, peace na part of the " fruit wey the spirit de produce. " ( Gal.		The apostle Paul lists peace as the third aspect of " the fruitage of the spirit. "
As time dey go, the student go feel like the person wey sing for Bible sey: ' To near you na im better for me.		In time, the sincere student may well feel as did the psalmist who sang: " Drawing near to God is good for me.
As we dey grow, we go come dey see things as dey see am - sey na love dey make person correct us.		When we gain more experience in life, we may see discipline in a new light and start to view it as does, as a manifestation of love.
Because elders don sabi how Bible dey help people, dem go know how to help the husband and wife follow wetin Bible talk.		These experienced brothers can assist married couples to apply the counsel of God 's Word.
Because of wetin that place talk, some people dey talk sey na only person wey never sin fit talk sey e bad to sleep with who no be your husband or wife.		On the basis of this passage, some have claimed that only a person without sin could find someone guilty of adultery.
Before dem put this person for prison, na im be the oga of people wey dey serve the king wine.		That prisoner was the former chief cupbearer of the king.
Before e start to correct the congregation for Ephesus, Pergamum, and Thyatira, e first praise dem for their better work.		Before giving them counsel, he gave warm commendation to the congregations in Ephesus, Pergamum, and Thyatira.
Bible dey teach us how to choose wetin good.		The Bible actually teaches us how to make wise decisions.
Bible sey: ' no leave Joseph at all and e continue to show am love wey no dey fail.		continued with Joseph and kept showing loyal love to him.
But, na because e know where e suppose do reach.		He simply recognized and accepted his changing circumstances and his limitations.
But, the sister sey: ' E still pain me for some time.		Nonetheless, she said: " I still went through a sort of grieving process.
But Jesus don promise dem sey e go give dem family wey go love dem and wey go care for dem.		But Jesus promised to give them a family who would love them and look after them.
But Moses show sey e get strong mind, e stand for side.		Rather than give in, Moses courageously took a stand for pure worship.
But mek you dey look for the one wey no dey support any side.		Instead, try to find reports that do not take sides.
But remember wetin tell Joshua. E tell am sey: ' Get strong mind.		But keep in mind 's words of encouragement to Joshua: " Be courageous and strong.
Dem born me for March 7, 1936. We be four children and na me be last born.		I was born on March 7, 1936, the youngest of four children.
Dem come travel go Bethlehem even though sey Mary get belle and e go soon born im first pikin.		They traveled to Bethlehem despite the fact that Mary was soon to give birth to her first child.
Dew good for life.		Dew is vital to life.
E clear say, one way wey we de make our light shine na when we preach and teach people Bible. ( Matt.		Clearly, one way we let our light shine is by preaching the good news and making disciples.
E de always spend time with us.		He was 93 years old when he died.
E fit be sey, for some of us, na when we get problem with brothers and sisters for congregation, na im we go need holy spirit pass.		And we may most keenly feel the need for divine help when we have a disagreement with a member of the congregation.
E good make servant get strong mind.		Courage is essential for Christians.
E good make we dey show sey we get real love. Real love no dey find wetin go only favor am. - 1 Cor.		Unlike such heartless and vain qualities, the love we desire to develop " does not look for its own interests. " - 1 Cor.
E make heaven well with deep sense. ' - PROV.		He solidly established the heavens in discernment. " - PROV.
E pass one thousand years wey dem write am before e happen. This one suppose make you get the mind sey people wey die go fit come life again, even if e don tey wey dem make the promise.		It was written over a thousand years in advance, a fact that should reinforce your confidence that a resurrection can occur long after it was foretold or promised.
E still tell us other things about this better character for James 5: 7, 8.		This aspect of patience is highlighted at James 5: 7, 8.
Even after Job suffer don end, how correction take continue to help am?		How would 's counsel benefit Job long after his trials?
Even self, the way the different different planet dey go round the sun be like when motor dey obey traffic law.		Why, planets in our solar system travel in orbits around the sun as though they were humbly obeying traffic laws!
For Pentecost 33 C.E., choose many many Jews and other people with im holy spirit.		At Pentecost 33 C.E., thousands of Jews and proselytes were anointed with holy spirit.
For many country, some people dey talk sey: " I fit be good person even if I no believe sey God dey. "		I can be a good person without believing in God.
For the next topic, we go learn more about the correction wey dem dey give person for family and congregation.		In the following article, we will expand on aspects of discipline within the family and the congregation.
For this topic, we go learn why e be like that and how we fit let the things wey dey Bible help us to continue to get the kind character wey like.		This article explains why this challenge exists and how we can continue to cultivate godly qualities with the help of God 's Word.
Give example.		Give examples.
Help am learn how to prepare for meeting make e fit answer question.		Help him to prepare for the meetings with the goal of commenting.
How I fit show them say I de feel for them?		How can I show them that I care?
How the peace wey Jesus de give de help make we continue with the preaching work?		How does that gift - his peace - help us to bear fruit?
How we go take get the kind faith wey Noah get?		How can we imitate Noah 's faith?
How you go take show sey you value your freedom to choose?		How will you show that you treasure your gift of free will?
I don near am pass as I near am before.		He has become more real to me than ever before.
If dem know, Joseph no go be member for Sanhedrin again, and nobody go respect am.		Joseph was not the only one in this predicament.
If this kind thing dey happen to you, ask yourself sey: ' This one mean sey my husband no want make I serve again?		If you face a similar situation, ask yourself: ' Is my spouse demanding that I stop worshipping my God?
If we dey give things to our brothers, e go show sey we really love dem ( Check paragraph 12 )		Giving to our brothers in need is one way to show our love and hospitality ( See paragraph 12 )
If your papa and mama no dey correct you, you no go dey wonder if dem really like you? ( Heb.		If your parents never corrected you, would you not wonder if they really cared about you?
Instead, e tell Peter and other apostles wetin make their mind strong.		On the contrary, Jesus reassured Peter and the other apostles.
Instead, people dey suffer more more and even die from wetin dem dey do.		On the contrary, they often lead to tragedies and loss of life.
Later, I come dey follow my mama go meeting.		She was very active in preaching the good news and conducted several Bible studies with interested people.
Learn their language and sabi their culture.		Learn their language, explore their culture.
Make dem no dey do like sey dem love each other for where people dey. But when only dem dey, dem dey fight, dey quarrel, and dem no dey talk to each other.		A husband and a wife should not pretend to love each other in public but then use the silent treatment, cruel words, or physical violence to hurt each other in private.
Make papa and mama de always do Family Worship. This one na one way wey they fit help their family dey as one.		One way parents can do so is by arranging for a regular Family Worship program.
Make we come learn how we fit show sey we value this three things well well - God Kingdom, our preaching work, and the truth for Bible.		Let us consider how we can develop and maintain our love and appreciation for the Kingdom, the ministry, and the truth.
Make we see two of dem:		Consider two examples:
My friendship with God begin weak because I no de study and go meeting again.		Deprived of spiritual food and association, I became spiritually inactive.
My servant dem go dey happy, but shame go catch una.		My servants will rejoice, but you will suffer shame.
My wife no gree.		Maria refused.
Na for there my small sister dem go see food chop belefull.		There, my sisters would have enough food to eat.
Na so things go be if we know where we suppose do reach. - Rom.		Modesty helps us to enjoy giving others due honor and support. - Rom.
Na that day Gary want baptize.		Gary was to be baptized that very day.
No put eye for only wetin go favor you.		Sacrifice personal advantages.
One Bethelite wey im name na Dustin, talk sey: " Na when I dey nine years I plan sey I go do full - time service.		A Bethelite named Dustin reports: " I made full - time service my goal when I was nine years old, and I started pioneering when I finished school.
One day for May 1955, when we reach house after we don close for preaching, me and Brother Leach see envelope for our room.		One day in May 1955 when we arrived home from field service, Brother Leach and I found a pack of letters in our room.
One man wey dey study Bible matter talk sey: " This [ verse ] no mean sey dem love God small.		One scholar wrote: " This [ verse ] definitely does not mean that they also love God to some extent.
People wey like money no fit be God friend.		Those who love money cannot please God.
SONG: 133, 135		SONGS: 133, 135
Satan and the demons really sabi fight and no be today they start to fight.		Even so, our enemies are real. Satan and the demons are skilled warriors with vast experience.
Sister Hilda Padgett * remember as things be that time. E sey: ' Governing Body really want make we do something; na wetin many of us don dey wait for since.		It was a call to action from headquarters, which most of us had been longing for and which soon brought wonderful results, " recalled Hilda Padgett.
So, why Nathan want go put mouth for this matter wey fit scatter their friendship?		So why would Nathan get involved and risk spoiling their long - standing friendship?
So anytime when help us like that, make we see am as new way wey take dey give us ' the peace wey pass wetin human being fit understand. '		Each time does so for us, we may experience in a new way " the peace of God that surpasses all understanding. "
So e want kill imself, but Paul stop am.		Paul and Silas were able to give a fine witness to the jailer and his family.
So with the English wey I learn, I come fit interpret the talk.		So I studied many of them in English.
Stephen na ministerial servant now. And e don tey wey im wife be regular pioneer.		Today, Stephen serves as a ministerial servant, and his wife has been a regular pioneer for several years.
The Worldwide Design / Construction Department dey direct plenty people for the whole world wey dey build Kingdom Hall and branch office.		Under the direction of the Worldwide Design / Construction Department, thousands of volunteers worldwide are working hard to build new Kingdom Halls and expand branch facilities.
The advice wey dem give me make me start to pioneer.		It was, in part, due to their encouragement that I decided to pioneer.
The people wey work for only one hour no suppose collect complete money. But the owner of the farm show dem extra favor.		The workers who had labored only one hour did not seem to merit receiving the full wage, but the owner of the vineyard showed them extraordinary kindness.
The things for there really different from wetin I know before for my small village.		Truly, it was quite different from what I had known back in our small village.
The things wey promise Daniel, and the strong faith wey Martha get, suppose make us believe sey, people wey don die go come life again.		The promise given to Daniel, as well as the certainty reflected in Martha 's reply to Jesus, should reassure Christians today.
Things fit spoil when person no fit control imself and e dey quick vex. E fit still make other people vex.		When a person does not control his feelings and gets upset easily, he may provoke others to anger.
This fisherman work wey Jesus dey talk for here no be the one wey one fisherman go just dey with hook wey e don put worm dey wait make fish come chop am.		The type of fishing he referred to here was not that of a lone fisherman using a line and a lure, sitting idly while waiting for the fish to bite.
This one show sey really get sense.		How does this reflect 's wisdom?
True - true, the things wey God de teach us na the best. One way we fit learn this things na when we read and think deep about any story for Bible.		Indeed, we receive the very best instruction from God, such as when we read and meditate on real - life Bible accounts.
True true, e better pass diamond and coral! If we no dey do wayo, we go get clean mind and we no go fear to preach		Being honest allows us to maintain a clean conscience and to have freeness of speech in the ministry
True true, we fit talk sey na only Witness people dey preach this good news for ' everywhere for this world '!		What other group of ministers is doing a similar work?
We dey always use this word for dem " Wait until you reach or pass 23 years. "		We coined the phrase " Stay free until you are at least 23. "
We really happy for this gift?		How we appreciate such blessings!
Wetin Paul tell the brothers for Philippi help us know sey worry worry get cure.		Paul 's words to the Philippians show us that the antidote to worry is prayer.
Wetin be some things wey we no go see again after Armageddon?		What are some things that will be gone forever after Armageddon?
Wetin other people know about Christians for old time?		What reputation did early Christians gain?
Wetin this verse dey talk about?		What point was being made?
When four young refugee come one congregation, some elders teach dem things.		Take the refugee brothers and sisters along with you in the ministry.
When the people wey dey build the temple hear this one, their mind come down!		What comfort this must have brought to the temple builders in Zechariah 's day!
When we get problem, wetin fit help us no make the kind mistake wey Josiah make?		When we encounter a problem, how can we avoid making a mistake like the one Josiah made?
Which kind eye we go take look the work wey dem give us?		How should we view privileges in 's service?
Who need better word, and why people no dey talk better word today?		Who needs encouragement, but why is it scarce today?
You ready to show sey you get strong mind for anything wey you dey do?		Are you resolved to be courageous in all aspects of your life?
God no forget the better things wey Dorcas do. ( Heb.		God had not forgotten the sacrifices of Dorcas.
[CONTENT_REMOVED]		See the box " Why Some People Do Not Delegate. " )
[CONTENT_REMOVED]		Look under INTERVIEWS AND EXPERIENCES > ENDURING TRIALS. )
[CONTENT_REMOVED]		He corrected that idea by giving them the illustration of the minas.
But God see sey e fit mold am to better thing - something wey God don select to ' go meet people for plenty country, plenty king and people for Israel. '		Instead, God saw that he could be molded into a desirable vessel - in fact, " a chosen vessel " to bear witness " to the nations as well as to kings and the sons of Israel. "
How Paul feel as Jew people no listen to the good news?		How did the negative reaction from most Jews affect Paul?
If we like wetin and Jesus do for us, wetin we go do?		Gratitude for the ransom should move us to do what?
Wetin the book of Acts talk wey make us know sey many Christian for apostle time no stop to show love?		How does the book of Acts indicate that most early Christians kept showing love?
To value work, Timothy need to put mind for God spirit to help am.		To safeguard his ministry, Timothy needed to rely on God 's spirit.
So Noah no just believe sey God dey, but im faith for God come dey strong.		As a result, Noah did more than believe in God; he developed strong faith in him.
Dem fit dey think sey, if their pikin never baptize, dem no go fit disfellowship am.		They may conclude, ' As long as my child is not baptized, he cannot be disfellowshipped. '
And tell am sey: ' Lead the people go the place wey I don tell you.		And told him: " Lead the people to the place about which I have spoken to you.
The Power Wey Greeting Carry		The Power of a Greeting
This person must ' show sey e don repent ' before congregation go gree make e come back. ( Luke 3: 8; 2 Cor.		He or she would have to " produce fruits that befit repentance " before being accepted back into the congregation.
Make we de use all the things wey the organization don give us. Things like, Watch Tower Publications Index, Research Guide for 's, Watchtower Library, Watchtower ONLINE LIBRARY, and JW Library app.		Make good use of study aids provided through the Christian congregation, such as the Watch Tower Publications Index, the Research Guide for 's, the Watchtower Library, the Watchtower ONLINE LIBRARY, and the JW Library app.
This people love God and dem still love other people. This kind people never plenty reach like this before.		Never before have there been so many who have come to love both God and their fellow man.
Their marriage go sweet because dem dey follow the advice wey dey Bible.		Once married, they will undoubtedly agree that the Bible gives the best advice for making their marriage a success.
AROUND 1910, my papa and mama pack from where dem dey call Tbilisi, for Georgia go one country wey dem dey call Canada. Their house near farm for one place wey dem dey call Pelly, for Saskatchewan wey dey western Canada.		IN THE 1910 ' s my parents immigrated to Canada from Tbilisi, Georgia, and settled in a small prairie farmhouse near Pelly, Saskatchewan, in western Canada.
Abigail na one young girl, e dey eighteen years and e talk say: " Sometimes, e be like say to talk true no make sense, especially if lie fit free person from trouble. "		Eighteen - year - old Abigail says: " Speaking the truth may not always seem worth it, especially when telling a lie can get you out of a difficult situation. "
Adam and Eve no follow wetin talk.		As it turned out, our first parents chose to disobey.
Amaziah no use all im mind serve like Asa.		Amaziah, on the other hand, was not fully devoted to.
And e good to change wetin we don choose?		And does being willing to decide mean sticking to our choices no matter what?
And for the next topic, we go answer the third one.		The third question will be addressed in the following article.
And when we de train our conscience with the laws and wetin fit guide us for Bible, we " go grow to be like Christ. " - Eph.		With diligent effort, we can attain " the measure of stature that belongs to the fullness of the Christ " as we let God 's laws and principles train our conscience. - Eph.
Apart from money and other better things wey you fit contribute, other way still dey wey we fit use support work.		In addition to gifts of money and valuable personal property, there are other methods of giving to benefit Kingdom service worldwide.
As Douglas Guest Take Talk Am		As told by Douglas Guest
As e de hurry enter, one brother turn, smile and tell the sister say: " Welcome.		As she hurried in, one brother turned, smiled, and said: " Hello.
As e dey try do wetin e dey learn, e come see sey to train im pikin to serve, na the work wey God don give am. ( Ps. 127: 3; Prov.		She made good progress and learned that it was her God - given duty to raise her child to worship.
Because I still no want join dem, dem come try another way.		Because I would not compromise my faith, the frustrated soldiers finally tried a new tack.
Because of wetin e do, Israel people ' no stop to follow ' till Josiah die. - 2 Chron.		As a result, the people " did not deviate from following " throughout Josiah 's lifetime. - 2 Chron.
But e good make e follow wetin Bible talk, because sense dey the advice wey dey Bible. give us Bible because e love us.		That said, Bible principles reflect God 's wisdom and his love for us.
But e no gree, e come even lock me for one small room.		But she locked me in a cell.
Colossians 3: 13 tell us sey: ' No dey carry wetin una do unaself for mind and no stop to dey use all una mind forgive unaself, even if na wetin suppose make you vex for the other person.		Colossians 3: 13 urges us: " Continue putting up with one another and forgiving one another freely even if anyone has a cause for complaint against another.
Dem born me for April 24, 1931.		I was born on April 24, 1931, the second of their four children.
Dem no born pikin to know wetin good and wetin bad; dem dey train am to know am ( check paragraph 8 )		Children are not born knowing right from wrong; they need training ( See paragraph 8 )
E dey always remember the good thing wey the sister do wey make am come worship. - 2 Cor.		He fondly remembers the one act of Christian kindness that drew him to a life of pure worship. - 2 Cor.
E fit mean sey something dey special or sey na im be one and only.		It can imply being unique, the one and only.
E go still love im wife?		Will he love her more?
E know sey the Jews no like Jesus.		He knew of the Jews ' disdain for Jesus and their determination to expel from the synagogue any who confessed faith in him.
E really know sey baptism na serious matter?		Does she really understand the seriousness of what she is doing?
E really serious for wetin e talk, and e no want make I preach.		Yes, he was intent on preventing me from preaching.
E sey: ' our God, you reach to get the power, praise and respect because na you make everything.		Exalted creatures in the heavenly realm lift their voices in praise to, " the One who lives forever and ever. "
E still talk say: " I happy as I get chance to help one family learn the truth for place wey congregation no dey. "		I had the pleasure of assisting an isolated family to learn the truth.
Esther over fine and e live big woman life for one year for Persia.		She was strikingly beautiful and was pampered with luxurious treatments for a year.
Even though sey our pikin know the correct thing, if we dey tell dem better word every time, to dey do the correct thing go dey part of their life. "		Even though our kids know what is right, doing the right thing becomes their way of life through our constant encouragement. "
Everything wey e dey do correct finish.		He exercises his authority with perfect justice.
For 1978, when Maria dey 45 years, e come get belle again.		In 1978, when Maria was 45, she again became pregnant.
For example, some people don dey prison for many years for wetin dem no do.		For example, some people have been unjustly convicted and imprisoned.
God promise am better thing for front.		He was promised a future.
How elders for congregation take different from people wey dey lead for religion?		Contrast genuine Christian shepherds with those who only claim to be such.
How we go take talk word wey go make person strong?		And how can we give encouragement that is effective?
How you go take show sey you dey sorry for people?		How can you show a compassionate attitude in your dealings with others?
How you think sey e go be for small boy like me that time to carry that kind heavy thing dey waka?		Just imagine me, a young boy, lugging one of those!
I answer say: " Doctor, I no de sick.		I 'm spiritually sick.
If e dey hard us to invite or visit person because the time and power no dey, wetin we fit do?		What might we do if having little time and energy limits our accepting or extending hospitality?
If we love people wetin we go do?		What connection is there between love and impartiality?
If you ready to forgive, e go show sey you dey copy how take dey judge matter. - Read Matthew 6: 14, 15.		Your willingness to forgive may well reflect 's view of justice. - Read Matthew 6: 14, 15.
show sey e love us even before e make Adam and Eve.		showed love for humans even before he created Adam and Eve.
Make we talk about how e take lose for war and come die.		Consider what led to his defeat and death.
Make we use this gift praise am and help people. ( Rom.		We can use them to glorify him and to benefit others.
Make your pikin dey do wetin Bible talk and make dem follow your good example. If dem do like that, you go feel like apostle John wey talk about brothers and sisters for congregation, wey be like im children, sey: ' Wetin dey make me happy pass na, when I hear sey my children dey follow the truth. ' - 3 John 4.		When your children follow God 's Word and your good example, you will feel as the apostle John did about his spiritual children: " No greater joy do I have than this: that I should hear that my children go on walking in the truth. " - 3 John 4.
Many of dem don leave some things so that dem go fit pioneer.		Many have made great sacrifices in order to make room in their lives for the pioneer service.
Many times, we no dey know the people wey dey contribute.		Most donations are anonymous.
Na around 98 C.E. apostle John write this letter wey dem dey call ' Third John ' for Bible.		The apostle 's letter, written about 98 C.E., appears in the Christian Greek Scriptures as " The Third of John. "
Na because of people wey dey rule. Dem no dey think of wetin dem go do make people life better. Instead, dem dey think about how dem go take continue to rule and how dem go take chop government money.		Because human rulers often concentrate on gaining political power and making financial profits rather than on improving the lives of the people.
Na people wey dey go heaven Romans chapter 8 really dey talk about.		Anointed Christians are those principally addressed in that chapter.
Na true sey we write this book for young people, but that one no mean sey other people no fit read am, because all the advice wey dey inside na from Bible. And the advice wey dey Bible fit help everybody.		Although the material is presented in a way that appeals to youths, the information is based on timeless Scriptural principles, and all of us can benefit from these spiritual provisions.
No be sey you and dey waka together, even though sey that one na better thing.		Here, you are not depicted as walking hand in hand with, though that is a pleasant thought to consider.
No matter how you want take contribute, abeg first ask the branch office wey dey your country to know how you go do am.		Regardless of the method or methods you would like to use, please first contact the branch office that serves your country to see which methods are available.
One book talk sey if we get endurance, our hope go dey strong and we no go stop to serve God when problem dey.		One reference book says that endurance is a quality that helps us to have strong hope and to avoid giving up when we have trials.
One papa for Australia use the time wey e carry im pikin go museum teach am wetin go help am get strong faith for God and the things wey God make. That time the pikin dey ten years.		When his son was about ten years old, a father in Australia took advantage of a visit to a museum to help his son to strengthen his faith in God and in creation.
Or I no dey too get time for this things again? ' Apostle Peter talk sey we fit continue to do well for work.		Or has there been some lessening of these spiritual activities? '
Or you dey shame?		Do you find it embarrassing?
Paul want help other Christian wey dey go heaven to continue to serve, so that dem go get wetin God don promise dem. Na this one make am tell dem sey: ' Make una put una mind for the things wey dey heaven. ' ( Col.		To help fellow anointed Christians to stay faithful and attain the prize, Paul urged them: " Keep your minds fixed on the things above. "
People for different place get how dem think sey e good to train pikin. And as time dey go, wetin dem think about the matter fit change.		Do not forget that ideas and methods vary from culture to culture and from generation to generation.
Preaching sweet me well well sotey I sey I want go Watchtower Bible School of Gilead make dem train me as missionary.		I so much enjoyed teaching Bible truths that I decided to apply for training as a missionary at the Watchtower Bible School of Gilead.
Shebna dey take care of somebody house.		As the steward " in charge of the house " - presumably that of Hezekiah - Shebna had considerable authority.
THE name of my papa and mama na James and Jessie Sinclair. Around 1935, my papa and mama pack go the town wey dem dey call Bronx, for New York City.		IN THE mid - 1930 ' s, my father and mother - James and Jessie Sinclair - moved to the Bronx, a borough of New York City.
That kind talk fit make some Jews wey just change to Christian to think sey Paul no dey respect God law.		Such stories could lead some newly converted Jewish Christians to think that Paul did not respect God 's arrangements.
The altar and the temple where dem dey serve no dey again.		s temple with its altar had been destroyed, and the priesthood was no longer functioning in an organized manner.
The main things wey you learn from Bible fit follow for wetin help you tell for prayer sey you want serve am; na im you come baptize. - Matt.		After learning the fundamental Bible truths, you were likely moved to take the steps that led to dedication and baptism. - Matt.
The news about wetin happen to Daniel reach everywhere for Medo - Persia, and this one come make plenty people know! - Dan.		In fact, the outcome resulted in a marvelous witness for that reached the farthest parts of the Medo - Persian Empire! - Dan.
The other chapter dem wey dey the book of Romans, especially chapter 6, go help us understand wetin apostle Paul talk for Romans 5: 12.		We find important information in the chapters surrounding the apostle Paul 's words at Romans 5: 12, especially in chapter 6.
The other thing wey we need, na where to put head.		Next, we needed accommodations.
The report wey dey the front page of the Informant about how the preaching work don be for ten years ( from 1928 go reach 1937 ), show sey na true.		A front - page service report spanning ten years from 1928 to 1937 proved the point.
The three people wey we talk about change their character because they want be like Jesus Christ.		All three made these changes because they desired to be like Christ.
The topic for Brother Rutherford talk na " The kingdom of heaven is at hand. "		Brother Rutherford spoke on the theme " The kingdom of heaven is at hand. "
The truth be sey, court people fit no support us as we dey try to stop people wey dey talk bad about us, or wey dey use wetin dey our website take do business.		Downloading our publications from anywhere but jw.org is potentially dangerous.
The truth be sey, e no easy for person to change, but God spirit dey help person wey ready to do wetin e want.		Such changes are not easy but can be made because God 's spirit will help those who sincerely desire to do God 's will.
This one make dem know me as person wey sabi wayo well well.		As a result, I had the reputation of being dishonest.
This one na just small part of the blessing wey we go get for front. ( Ps. 72: 7 ) So we fit talk sey correction dey prepare our mind for the kind peace and one mind wey we go enjoy for paradise.		Indeed, it is no exaggeration to say that 's discipline teaches us how to live together forever in peace and harmony as a family under his fatherly care.
To fit enjoy wetin ' good, ' human being must trust God and obey am.		To enjoy the ' good, ' humankind must trust God and obey him.
We happy well well sey we dey serve, and we dey enjoy the freedom wey e give us.		We are grateful that we have come to know and can enjoy the freedom that true worship brings.
We suppose teach dem how to preach and teach wetin dey inside Bible.		They must also be taught to preach the good news to others and to teach them the truth.
We thank because e don show us love well well. So, make we do everything wey we fit do ' to preach well about the good news of God favor. '		As grateful recipients of God 's generous love, we should be moved to do our utmost " to bear thorough witness to the good news of the undeserved kindness of God. "
Wetin be some of the things wey e dey face? Na Jesus be the head of congregation and Bible tell us sey ' no be wetin im eye see e go take judge. '		Regarding the head of the Christian congregation, Jesus, the Bible prophesied: " He will not judge by what appears to his eyes, nor reprove simply according to what his ears hear.
Wetin dey help dem fit do am?		What is it that enables them to do this?
Wetin dey some of the book wey we write for young people, and how we fit gain if we read dem?		How does the material published for young people help them, and how can it benefit others too?
Wetin fit help us know whether we don dey put enjoyment as number one thing for our life?		How can we determine if we have a balanced view of recreation?
Wetin one old brother and sister do so that they fit continue to preach?		How did one elderly couple expand their ministry?
Wetin person fit do me? " ' - Heb.		What can man do to me? ' " - Heb.
Wetin we fit learn from the way, Jesus and apostle Paul take tell people word wey make dem strong?		What do the examples of, Jesus, and the apostle Paul teach us about giving encouragement?
What if you senior some elders for your congregation, circuit or branch, or sey dem be another tribe or from another country?		Or what if those appointed as overseers in your congregation - or in your circuit or branch - are younger or are culturally or racially different from you?
When I comot for airport, the kind cold wey catch me never catch me before. I come start to cry. "		When I left the airport and felt the cold for the first time in my life, I started crying. "
When e complete one year wey one man stop to dey look things wey dey show naked people, e celebrate am, and e talk sey: " I no dey shame for myself again. "		On celebrating a year of being free of his addiction to pornography, one man wrote: " I have restored a sense of personal integrity that was missing. "
When the brother wey dey vex think the matter, e come talk sey: " Na true you talk o. "		After considering this for a moment, the first brother responded, " You are right. "
Which different - different gift de help us endure as we de preach?		How are we helped to endure in our preaching work?
Which example show say people fit get different conscience?		How may consciences differ?
Why Jesus Condemn Jew People Wey Dey Swear?		Offered Selves in Turkey, July
Why e go there?		Why did he go there?
Paul don do bad things before, but forgive am.		Nevertheless, Paul added: " But by God 's undeserved kindness I am what I am. "
Today, some people dey lie about organization. So that people go think sey dem be better person, dem ' dey use sweet mouth and wayo talk. ' But, the truth be sey dem get plan. - Rom.		Likewise today, apostates and others who create divisions in the congregation use " smooth talk and flattering speech " to make themselves appear to be loving, but their true motive is selfish. - Rom.
Timothy learn many things from apostle Paul, wey be elder. E come dey use wetin e learn from Paul for im preaching and as e dey serve. - 2 Tim.		Then Timothy applied Paul 's methods in his own ministry and other aspects of sacred service. - 2 Tim.
[CONTENT_REMOVED]		See the box " Lessons or Antitypes? " )
And na wetin happen be that.		And that is what happened.
That one show sey true true person fit good for God eye.		Thus, a person can indeed " be of use to God. "
So that your children fit learn about the things wey dey teach im people, you must ' talk about dem ' everytime. - Read Deuteronomy 6: 6, 7.		In order for your children to learn 's teachings, you must " speak of them " on all appropriate occasions. - Read Deuteronomy 6: 6, 7.
E good for am to think about this question because person wey don baptize go face some of this things.		Therefore, it is crucial to think these matters through before taking that serious step.
We go know how dey think if we dey study Bible. This one go help us know wetin we fit do for the matter wey we no see any law for Bible wey talk about am.		Getting to know 's thinking through Bible study can help us to perceive what God would want us to do in a particular situation.
And how we fit preach well to refugee wey never know?		And how can we effectively share the good news with refugees who do not yet know?
Why we dey get problem with our brothers and sisters sometimes?		Why do differences between Christians occur?
Dem go make sure sey fake religion no dey again.		Those religious organizations will be completely destroyed.
This one show sey really understand wetin Lot dey face. Na so still understand wetin we dey face today. - Isa.		Does that example not indicate that is fully aware of the difficult situations in which his faithful people sometimes find themselves? - Isa.
God go bless dem, e go raise dem go life for heaven. This blessing good pass the ' better resurrection ' wey people wey get faith for olden days dey wait for.		They would have the reward of a resurrection to heavenly life - surpassing the " better resurrection " that ancient men of faith looked forward to.
I dey always pray, read Bible, and preach? And I dey try make I no miss meeting?		Am I praying, reading God 's Word, attending congregation meetings, and sharing in the ministry as often as possible?
Make we still dey control wetin we dey think and wetin we dey talk. - Eph. 5: 3 - 5.		Further, we need to control what we think about and talk about. - Eph. 5: 3 - 5.
Make Una Dey Use Love Settle Quarrel		Settle Differences in a Spirit of Love
After we build am finish, na Brother Milton Henschel give the dedication talk for April 23, 1988. Na 45,522 people come and belle sweet dem.		On April 23 of that year, Brother Milton Henschel presided at the dedication of the new facilities in the presence of an enthusiastic audience of 45,522.
And im Father come bless am with many better things to show sey e like wetin Jesus do.		Furthermore, he was rewarded with his Father 's approval and many wonderful privileges.
Another promise wey person no suppose take play na the one wey e make for im wedding day.		The second most important vow that a person can make is the marriage vow.
Another thing wey Satan de do so that we go leave, na to attack us.		In addition to offering bait, Satan tries to bully us into compromising our loyalty to.
As time dey go, this one fit make you tire.		The resulting emotional stress might in time drain your strength.
Because many people want know more, they don collect the book Questions Young People Ask - Answers That Work, Volume 1 and 2, and other brochures.		Curiosity has prompted many to obtain copies of Questions Young People Ask - Answers That Work, Volumes 1 and 2, as well as brochures.
Because of the simple language wey dem use, God message dey quick touch person mind.		Its clear wording allows the message of God 's Word to reach our heart.
Before we comot from that place, two small congregation come dey there.		Before we left that assignment, there were two small congregations.
Before you know, dem come sabi how to teach because dem don learn from Jesus. ( Matt.		Having been able to observe Jesus ' methods, they soon became capable teachers of Scriptural truth.
Bible talk about the whole time wey e rule say: " E do bad thing. "		The Bible sums up his reign, saying: " He did what was bad. "
But e still talk sey e dey sin.		Nonetheless, he confessed that he was still guilty of sin.
But the angel no let am come out. At once, e throw am back inside the container, come use the heavy cover, cover am.		The angel takes swift action, throwing her back into the container and sealing it shut with the heavy lid.
But this church leaders still go dig Wycliffe bone come out, burn am, come trowey the ashes for one river wey dem dey call Swift.		Still, the clergy had Wycliffe 's bones exhumed and burned and the ashes thrown into the river Swift.
Come follow your oga enjoy. " ( Matt.		Enter into the joy of your master. "
Dem no dey separate am. ' If papa and mama culture no enter pikin body, e fit no like to learn their language and religion.		If children do not identify with their parents ' culture, they may resist learning their parents ' language - and their faith.
E come use the next assignment wey dem give am for class talk about flag matter.		She gave her next report to the class on the subject of flag salute.
E concern God if you dey do good, or you think sey e dey gain anything because your way straight? '		Does the Almighty care that you are righteous, or does he gain anything because you follow the course of integrity? "
E help Israel people fit face the wahala wey dem jam for road as dem dey enter Promise Land.		That reminder fortified the Israelites to confront the challenges facing them as they entered and took possession of the Promised Land.
E really show sey im na person wey get sense.		He truly proved to be a wise one.
E sey:		He wrote:
E still help me remember wetin Jesus talk; sey one person better pass many bird wey dey fly.		He also reminded me of Jesus ' words - that each of us is worth more than many sparrows.
E waka with Jesus and Jesus give am big work to do for congregation. ( Matt.		He was a personal associate of Jesus and had been entrusted with significant responsibilities.
Ejvor na one brother and e don pioneer for 34 years. E talk say: " People don de suffer before, but for this our time, problems don too much.		Notes Ejvor, a pioneer for 34 years: " Today, more than ever, many people feel emotionally low.
For example, one of this people talk sey: " From wetin God talk for [ Genesis 2: 16, 17 ] e show sey na only God know wetin good. for human being and na only God know wetin no good. for dem.		For example, one scholar observes: " The inference of God 's commands in [ Genesis 2: 16, 17 ] is that only God knows what is good. for humanity and only God knows what is not good. for them.
For first world war, the brothers wey dey direct our work do everything wey dem fit do to dey make the faith of brothers and sisters strong.		During the first world war, no effort was spared to keep providing spiritual food and encouragement to the scattered Bible Students.
For some years now, e no easy for me as my husband die. I still dey feel am.		In the last few years, I have felt heartbreak, depression, and grief.
For the wedding, me and my wife come see sey Witness people no dey behave like other people.		My wife and I soon noticed that the behaved differently.
God tell am make e build the ark wey go save human being and animal. ( Gen.		How difficult that project must have seemed - and not just from the construction point of view!
How angels take help Jesus?		What did angels do to assist Jesus?
How elders go handle matter if dem want make the congregation clean and get one mind?		To maintain a congregation 's unity and cleanness, how should the elders handle cases of wrongdoing?
How person wey dey pity for people take dey behave?		What does it mean to be compassionate?
How some papa and mama don take help their children put mind for things wey concern God, and wetin dem don gain?		How have some parents helped their children to set spiritual goals, and how has this proved beneficial?
How we take know sey for us to do business and make money no be wetin dey mind from beginning?		How do we know that today 's commercial system was not part of God 's purpose?
I no do wetin dem sey I do.		I am innocent of any offense.
If we no dey patient, our love for people no go strong like before. But if we dey patient, our love for people go strong. ( 1 Cor.		Persistent impatience weakens the bonds of love; patience strengthens them.
If you start to dey complain about how e dey do things or dey argue with am, that one go solve the problem?		Would you improve the situation by arguing about his behavior?
Instead, e use im money do things for dem. - Neh.		Nehemiah did not domineer over others; rather, he served them at his own expense. - Neh.
get you for mind and e want really help you. When you get problem, no want make you worry yourself.		He is interested in you, concerned about your welfare, and determined to help you.
go give dem chance to choose am as their king.		They will be given an opportunity to submit to 's sovereignty.
no dey choose or select the kind problem wey we go face.		does not pick and choose the trials we face.
Jephthah tear im own cloth, come talk sey: ' Eeeh! My pikin!		He ripped his clothes apart and cried out: " Oh no, my daughter!
Jesus talk something wey fit help us sabi wetin we go do.		Jesus explained a principle that helps us to know whom we should obey.
Linda: " I try sabi wetin dey our tract, so that I go ready to give people for preaching.		Linda: " I familiarized myself with our tracts so as to be prepared to offer them.
Make una get am for mind sey go bless anything wey una do to help una children serve am.		You can be sure that God will bless parents who help their children to set and reach spiritual goals.
Make we see some things wey fit help us know.		Consider a few of the warning signs.
Make we talk about the trap wey Satan use catch some angels.		Consider how effective Satan was in using bait to trap a large number of his angelic brothers.
Many of the IUD wey dem dey see that time na the one wey dem use rubber make. Dem dey put am for inside woman belle ( where pikin dey grow ), so that e no go get belle.		Most IUDs that were then widely available were inert plastic objects inserted in the uterus ( womb ) to prevent pregnancies.
Many of us get serious sickness for body.		Many of you dear brothers and sisters are coping with serious illness.
Many people dey think sey e no bad to thief, lie or do other wayo things.		Many think that they are justified in stealing, cheating, or engaging in other dishonest practices.
Many people wey don reach the age to stop work dey fear.		Many people reach retirement age and wonder if they will have enough money to live out the rest of their life comfortably.
Martha and Henry story show sey, we fit encourage any brother or sister wey need person to encourage am.		The examples of Marthe and Henri show that we can be encouraging to a brother or a sister who is in need of comfort.
Me, my mama, and my junior brother preach around Tulun. But we use sense take do am.		My mother, Grigory, and I preached in the settlements around Tulun, but we had to be resourceful.
Na for one city wey dem dey call Campos, wey get 15 congregation now, we do our work.		Our missionary assignment was the city of Campos, where there are now 15 congregations.
Na im dey control how water for river take dey flow.		All creation, including humans, moves and functions within these boundaries.
Na one Samaritan man come help because e pity this Jew. How Jesus end the story?		Passing Jews ignored this unfortunate man, whereas the Samaritan took pity on him.
Na papa and mama give the work to teach their children Bible. E no give their grandpapa, grandmama or any other person the work.		has assigned parents - not grandparents or anyone else - the privilege of raising their children in the truth.
Na six city them build for the land. Them de maintain the road wey them de pass go the city.		There were six cities of refuge distributed in the land, with good roads leading to them.
Na the pikin go use im sense take believe wetin Bible talk.		Each child needs to use his or her own " power of reason " to develop conviction about Bible truth.
No Let Devil Spoil Your Mind, July		Get More From Reading the Bible, No.
ONE husband and wife for France talk sey: " Because we believe sey dey, no mean sey our pikin go believe.		WE BELIEVE in, but that does not necessarily mean that our children will believe, " said a married couple in France.
One and only.		Unique.
One angel tell Paul sey e go stand for Caesar front.		You must stand before Caesar, " an angel later told Paul.
One example for this matter na Gagik own.		Gagik 's example well illustrates that.
Out of the nine character wey God holy spirit dey help us get, this Watchtower go talk about the first one wey be love.		This is the first article of a nine - part series that will consider each quality, or aspect, of the fruitage of the spirit.
Papa and Mama Help Your Children Get Life, Dec.		Leads His People, Feb.
Sacrifice wey dem burn for fire: Sacrifice wey dem burn for fire join for wetin dey inside the Law wey give Moses.		Burnt offering: Burnt offerings, or burnt sacrifices, are mentioned in the Mosaic Law.
So, e no make sense at all sey Josiah go fight Necho.		So it was bad judgment on Josiah 's part to battle against Necho.
Some brothers dey argue with this kind people for Internet, and this one don even spoil name more more.		Some brothers have been drawn into online debates and thus have brought added reproach on 's name.
The last person wey we go talk about na King Josiah. Wetin we fit learn from am?		Finally, what warning can we find in what happened to good King Josiah?
The name na Spanish Influenza. This sickness dey quick spread and as e dey spread e dey kill people.		The pervasiveness of that dreadful plague made it difficult for publishers to move about freely.
The things wey Jesus talk help people wey no happy and people wey need help. ( Matt.		His kind words heartened those who were figuratively like a bruised reed or the wick of an oil lamp about to go out.
Think about one brother wey im name na Malcolm, wey hold tight until e die for 2015.		Consider a brother named Malcolm, who remained faithful until his death in 2015.
True true, if husband and wife continue to follow people, dey do wetin Bible talk and dem let spirit direct dem, dem no go scatter ' wetin God don join together. ' - Mark 10: 9.		Indeed, married Christians who stick with 's people, apply Scriptural counsel, and accept the guidance of 's holy spirit can preserve " what God has yoked together. " - Mark 10: 9.
True true, many people want wetin I dey give.		Clearly, many individuals wanted what I had to give.
We dey carry the book come from Tokmok. We dey put dem inside sack wey people dey use take carry potato.		We carried the publications from Tokmok in a mishok, a sack used to transport potatoes.
We still go one place wey dem dey call Kurganinsk. E get one group wey dey there, and the publishers for the group no many.		We also helped to strengthen a small group of publishers in the nearby town of Kurganinsk.
We suppose let dem know sey ' dey hear prayer. '		They need to know that is the " Hearer of prayer. "
Wetin promise im people wey give dem hope? And how the message take help dem?		What reassurance does next give the Jews, and how does his message affect them?
Wetin go help person make e no too love imself?		How can we avoid loving ourselves excessively?
Wetin happen as Stephen start to do wetin e dey learn from Bible?		What was the outcome when Stephen began to follow the Bible 's advice?
Wetin make Jesus tell im disciple dem sey make dem ' continue to dey watch '?		Why did Jesus tell his disciples to " keep on the watch "?
Wetin many brothers and sisters dey do to preach more?		What kind of response to the preaching work is seen among 's people?
Wetin old brothers, young men and their wife fit do make organization dey get peace and one mind?		What might older ones and younger ones, as well as their wives, do to help maintain the peace and unity of 's organization?
Wetin save dem be sey, dem climb where water no fit reach dem for their house.		By climbing to the roof of their house, they barely escaped the tsunami.
Wetin we suppose think about before we talk?		We should consider what things before speaking?
Wetin you don ready to do?		What are you determined to do?
When Jesus dey 12 years, the people wey dey teach for temple surprise as ' e take dey understand things and the way e dey answer ' question about Bible. - Luke 2: 42, 46, 47.		When he was 12 years old, the teachers at the temple were amazed at " his understanding and his answers " regarding spiritual matters. - Luke 2: 42, 46, 47.
When dem choose wetin good, dem go happy.		When they do this wisely, they benefit.
Which chance we get to do good to our brothers and sisters?		What opportunities do we have for extending hospitality " to one another "?
Which question we go answer now, and wetin go help us get the answer?		What question will we consider, and how will we do so?
Which things make us value Jesus death?		What factors move us to view the ransom as precious?
Why want make we dey give am wetin we get?		Why does expect us to use our valuable things to give back to him?
You dey pity for old or sick people? You ready to do wetin you fit do to help dem? - Phil.		Does your compassion for the sick and the elderly move you to do all you can to lessen their suffering? - Phil.
You fit pioneer?		Are you able to pioneer?
get wetin dem dey call study guide wey fit help young people and people wey don grow. E go help dem understand wetin Bible talk and how dem go fit explain am to people.		study guides are excellent tools to help both young ones and adults to understand and explain Bible truths.
Mek we do everything wey we fit do, so that we no go dey think like people wey dey this world.		We must do all we can to avoid the world 's thinking.
E fit be sey Demetrius want make Gaius help am. So na this letter apostle John take let Gaius know the kind person wey Demetrius be.		It may have been that Demetrius needed Gaius ' assistance, and Third John may have served as the apostle 's letter of introduction and recommendation.
We de make friends with people from another country. Their culture no de make us vex, and we fit even learn their language. All this one de make us happy.		We rejoice as we forge friendships with people from other lands, accepting cultural differences and possibly even learning the languages of others.
Jesus no support any side for politics because e Kingdom dey for heaven.		He would not get involved in politics, for his Kingdom was to be a heavenly one.
The lie wey people like, Aristotle and Plato wey go school well well dey teach, dey sweet this leaders well well.		Prominent men who were enamored of the philosophies of Aristotle and Plato introduced false religious ideas, gradually replacing the pure teachings of God 's Word.
Wetin be some of the things wey Bible sey make we do, and why e good make we do dem?		What are some of the directives found in God 's Word, and why should we obey them?
This thing wey tell dem go make dem no dey free again?		Did this command in some way deprive them of their freedom?
Why dem put the eight brothers for prison?		Why were eight responsible brothers sentenced to long prison terms?
E get one man wey im name na Dannykarl. Na Philippines e dey stay before e pack go Japan.		Consider what happened to Dannykarl who moved from the Philippines to Japan.
Go Make Your Plan Get Head		May He. Give Success to All Your Plans "
Wetin be one thing wey ' one ' mean?		What is one meaning of the phrase " one "?
Na so dey do for im servant dem, e dey give dem the power wey dem need, when dem need am.		is pleased to give an appropriate measure of power to his human servants when needed.
All of us get the part for Bible wey dey always sweet us to read.		No doubt all of us have our favorite portions of the Bible.
And that na the main thing wey Paul want make the brothers and sisters for Rome dey do.		And those were the activities that he recommended to his brothers and sisters in Rome.
Another thing be say, we go dey sure say go answer our prayer.		Furthermore, we can be sure that is ready to answer our prayers for help in overcoming obstacles that we may encounter as we preach the Kingdom good news.
As all this things dey happen, Greece soldier come dey near where the group dem dey.		Meanwhile, the Greek army was steadily closing in on the communists.
Ask them wetin don help them serve for plenty years. You go learn better things from their story.		You might respectfully ask them to relate an experience from their years of service.
Brother Jaracz come tell dem wetin make their mind come down. E sey: ' Time don reach make una give holy spirit chance to work. '		Putting them at ease, Brother Jaracz said: " Now it is time to leave some space for holy spirit to work. "
But I dey go visit dem for there, and I tell dem sey make dem try to study Bible.		Eventually, all my siblings did so and became 's.
But the boy tell am sey, " If I collect the one wey better pass, dem no go dey call me again to come choose.		But, " said the boy, " if I take the gold coin, people will stop playing the game with me.
But wetin e really mean to get this better character?		But what is involved in having this godly quality?
Dem come see am sey, even if I talk before sey church don tire me, I really like to learn wetin dey Bible.		They realized that although I said I did not care about religion, I really wanted to know about the Bible.
Dem need to know sey, use Jesus death give us life wey no go end because e love us.		People need to know that the ransom is the means by which lovingly offers all mankind the prospect of everlasting life.
Dem ready to do wetin go make happy. - 1 Samuel 1: 20 - 28; 2: 26.		They were determined to make happy. - 1 Samuel 1: 20 - 28; 2: 26.
E be like sey una come dey preach pass before? ' "		Have you increased your activity? ' "
E dey make us use sense live our life, dey do wetin good, and hold God tight even as we dey this world. ( Titus 2: 11 - 14 ) People dey see us when we dey behave well.		We have been trained " to reject ungodliness and worldly desires and to live with soundness of mind and righteousness and godly devotion amid this present system of things. "
E fit be your husband or wife, your mama or papa, grandpapa or grandmamma wey you love well well.		Maybe it is your deceased mate, your mother, your father, or a beloved grandparent.
E fit even make you no happy again.		It could even cause you to lose your joy.
E fit hard us to control ourself when person talk wetin we no do.		It can be hard to control our feelings when we have to put up with unfair criticism.
E fit make us just look the book small, comot eye or we fit no even read am at all.		Do we tend to give such information superficial consideration or even skip it altogether?
E fit still be sey na Demetrius carry this letter give Gaius.		Demetrius himself may well have delivered the letter to Gaius.
E master me sotey, I dey pray make my girlfriend comot for house, so that I go see chance watch naked people film. "		It got so bad that I could not wait for the woman I was living with to leave the house so that I could watch pornographic videos. "
E sey: ' Father, if na wetin you want, comot this cup from my side.		He said: " Father, if you want to, remove this cup from me.
E still talk sey e want make Gaius body strong the way Gaius faith for God strong.		Then John expressed his hope that the physical health of Gaius was as good as his spiritual health.
E talk sey: ' But for me, I know sey your love no dey fail. I go happy well well as you dey save me.		This is what he says: " As for me, I trust in your loyal love; my heart will rejoice in your acts of salvation.
E talk sey: ' I come dey see sey me self get some character wey no good. And I no happy with myself at all.		I began seeing my own personality flaws, and I was very disappointed in myself.
Even if e dey do you like that, make you no tire. Continue to beg make e give you holy spirit, and go help you put mind for better things.		Keep asking for the spirit, and will help you to redirect your mental attitude to focus on proper things.
Even till now, we never see picture of this three letter wey dem paste for everywhere for the convention.		The signs are still a mystery. To date, no photographs of them have been located by our Archives.
Filip talk wetin happen, e sey: " I study Bible with one young man wey im name na Michael.		Filip relates: " I studied with a young man named Michael.
For example, e fit be matter about whether to marry or who to marry.		Some Christians face decisions about whether to marry and whom to marry.
For our congregation for Tokmok, we come see new way to do more for work.		In our home congregation of Tokmok, new avenues of service opened up.
For our time, the man wey carry wetin person take dey write, na Jesus Christ; e dey mark the people wey go save.		In the modern - day fulfillment, the man with the secretary 's inkhorn represents Jesus Christ, the one behind the scenes who marks those who will survive.
For prophet Malachi time, many husband for Israel dey let small small thing make dem end their marriage.		In the days of the prophet Malachi, many Jewish husbands dealt treacherously with their wives by divorcing them, using all kinds of excuses.
From 1870, Charles Taze Russell and some people wey work with am, want make people serve God the way Bible talk.		In the late 19th century, Charles Taze Russell and some of his associates endeavored to reestablish true Christian worship.
Herod like wetin the people dey talk about am.		Herod evidently basked in the praise.
How Jesus apostle take use better word help the brothers that time?		How did the apostles encourage their brothers?
How Satan take dey use ' wetin our eye like ' dey deceive us?		How does Satan use " the desire of the eyes "?
How many hour you think sey take dey hear our prayer?		How much time is willing to spend listening to your prayers?
How we go do wetin God talk and still do wetin government talk?		How can we obey both God and human governments?
How we go take show sey sin no dey rule us again but na favor?		How can we show that we are no longer ruled by sin but by undeserved kindness?
I come get many mama, papa, brothers, and sisters as Jesus talk. ' - Mark 10: 29, 30.		I gained spiritual mothers and fathers, brothers and sisters, just as Jesus promised. " - Mark 10: 29, 30.
I no go fit help my children believe wetin Bible talk if me no believe am. "		I can 't expect my children to be persuaded unless I am. "
If husband and wife like how dey do things, dem go follow im example.		Accordingly, married couples who love 's ways imitate him.
If sey Jephthah pikin want marry, which kind man e for marry? Since na im papa dey lead Israel, you no think sey na man wey people respect and wey people sabi well for Israel e for marry?		She could probably have married the best man in the land because her father was the leader in Israel.
If you want know wetin person fit do make dem no rape am, go check the topic " How to Prevent Rape, " wey dey March 8, 1993 Awake! ( for English ).		Regarding the matter of defending oneself against rape, see the article " How to Prevent Rape " in the March 8, 1993, issue of Awake!
people value life pass money and property.		Christians consider life to be far more valuable than material things.
Jesus talk sey we ' go hate one and love the other one ' or we ' go hold one tight and leave the other one. ' ( Matt.		We will either " hate the one and love the other " or " stick to the one and despise the other, " said Jesus.
Jesus tell im apostle dem sey e get things wey dem no know and dem no fit know.		Well, Jesus did tell his apostles that there were things they did not and could not know.
King David let Solomon know sey no go ever leave am. go help am complete the work. ( 1 Chron.		King David reminded Solomon that would be with him until the work of building the temple was finished.
Make we no let other things wey we dey do for life make us stop to get power from the different different way take dey help us today.		Let us never allow other pursuits and activities to interfere with the means that uses to strengthen and encourage us.
Many of dem na young people wey dem born for inside organization.		Many are young people who have been raised in the truth and who have chosen the best way of life.
Many people dey go prison. But when dem come back, dem still be better person. "		Many people go to prison but return with their dignity intact. "
Many people don overdo because dem get long throat, jealousy, and dem dey vex anyhow.		Selfish ambition, envy, and uncontrolled anger have led many to presumptuous acts.
Na Jerusalem be the first place wey the apostle dem for dey direct the preaching work.		The apostles chose Jerusalem as the first center from which the preaching work would be directed.
Na all this things go mek our faith strong. - John 6: 27.		These activities will give us what we need to keep our faith strong. - John 6: 27.
Na im make e good make we dey read Bible every day and dey think about wetin dey tell us.		That is why we daily must read God 's written Word and meditate on what is telling us.
Na plenty money dey inside.		It was full of money.
Na this one make Brother Eduard Varter advice am sey: " When police people ask you question about how we take dey get our book, tell dem sey e dey come from our headquarter wey dey Brooklyn.		Hence, Eduard Varter gave Nikolai some encouraging advice: " When the authorities question you, tell them openly that we get our literature from headquarters in Brooklyn.
Na true sey Bible no talk sey we must pioneer; we fit still dey serve as publisher.		Of course, there is no Bible command that we pioneer; we could continue serving as faithful publishers.
Na wetin Paul do be that.		That is what Paul did.
No Stop to Get Love, May		Imitate 's Justice and Mercy, Nov.
One circuit overseer come carry Henry go out go drink coffee. The circuit overseer allow am talk everything wey dey im mind, and im mind come down.		Henri was encouraged by a circuit overseer who took him to a caf for a cup of coffee and allowed him to open his heart.
One thing wey we fit do to prepare well na to check all the Bible verse.		One way we can do so is by looking up each of the cited Bible texts.
Or maybe dem do wetin pain us? Mek we no stop to serve because of wetin dem do us.		We should not allow our hurt feelings to prevent us from serving.
Peter still tell dem sey: " Na this one be ' the stone wey una wey be builders treat like sey e no mean anything. Na im come be the main stone for the corner of the building. ' " - Acts 3: 15; 4: 5 - 11; 1 Pet.		Thereupon, Peter clearly stated: " This is ' the stone that was treated by you builders as of no account that has become the chief cornerstone. ' " - Acts 3: 15; 4: 5 - 11; 1 Pet.
So, for August 31, 1947, I baptize as one of Witness.		On August 31, 1947, I symbolized my dedication to by water baptism.
So for July 1953, I come go the New World Society Assembly wey dem do for the same area for New York City.		Thus in July 1953, I could attend the New World Society Assembly, which was held in the same borough of the city.
So make we get am for mind sey our person wey dem disfellowship fit come serve again.		Love " hopes all things, " including that those who have left will come back to him.
So our papa arrange with school principal make me and my sister share the days wey we go de go school.		With Mom gone, Dad made an arrangement with the school principal.
Sometimes, when Bible talk about correction, e talk other better things follow am like, better sense, love, and life.		In the Bible, discipline is often presented in an appealing light, at times alongside knowledge, wisdom, love, and life.
That time, wicked people full Babylon no be small. Dem dey put hand for sex wey no clean for God eye and dem dey serve juju.		Zechariah and his fellow Jews could confirm that Babylon was a place of wickedness in their day.
The city wey arrange for person wey kill somebody by mistake, show sey dey pity person and e value life.		The cities of refuge are a reflection of 's mercy.
The time wey Paul dey talk about the special chance wey God don give the 144,000 people wey go follow Jesus rule for heaven, e sey: ' God, wey dey pity us well well because of the way e take love us well well, make us come get life together with Christ, even when we don die for sin - na favor save una.		Referring to the extraordinary privilege that God has granted to the 144,000, who are called to reign with Christ in his heavenly Kingdom, Paul wrote: " God, being rich in mercy, because of his great love with which he loved us, made us alive together with the Christ, even when we were dead in trespasses - by undeserved kindness you have been saved.
This one go help us carry body down. After all, no be give us im holy spirit and Bible wey dey help us?		He has provided both the Holy Scriptures and the holy spirit that supports his people.
To Give Don Make My Life Sweet ( R.		What is " the word of God "?, Sept.
Wendy wey dey 65 years now, start to pioneer for Australia before e reach 20 years.		Wendy, now in her mid - 60 ' s, began pioneering in Australia as a teenager.
Wetin God sey make we do today?		What has commanded us to do today?
Wetin make am think like that?		Why did she think so?
Wetin person fit do me? '		What can man do to me? "
Wetin we go learn for this topic?		What will we learn in this article?
Wetin we learn from Joseph example?		What does Joseph 's example teach us?
When e go give talk for Dublin again, O 'Connor and 100 people wey dey cause wahala want come scatter the meeting.		O 'Connor plus 100 rowdies attempted to disrupt the Dublin meeting once more, but the audience enthusiastically supported the speaker.
When you dey read Bible, our book dem, and dey go meeting, you go see how take help other people stand well for im side.		When you read the Bible and our publications and when you attend Christian meetings, you hear encouraging experiences of how God has helped others to stay faithful.
Why Jesus talk sey make we no dey worry about wetin we go chop, drink or wear, when e know sey na wetin we really need for life?		Why did Jesus tell us not to worry about what we will eat, or drink, or wear? Are not such things some of the major necessities of life? They certainly are!
Why e good make we dey control ourself?		Why should you be interested in cultivating self - control?
Zechariah chapter 5 start with wetin Zechariah see for the sixth vision.		Chapter 5 of Zechariah begins with an unusual vision.
We love and we trust am. As we dey follow wetin Bible talk for our life, we dey show sey we hold tight.		We love and put our trust in him; we choose to show our loyalty to him by living up to the standards clearly outlined in his own precious Book.
Because we want do wetin go make God happy, we dey try make we dey clean for body, run from sex matter wey no clean for God eye, and comot hand for lie lie religion.		Because we want to please God, we strive to remain clean physically, morally, and spiritually.
No forget sey holy spirit dey help person dey gentle and dey fit control imself.		Remember that the fruitage of God 's holy spirit includes mildness and self - control.
If we know where we suppose do reach as we dey follow waka, e go make us no think about ourself pass the way we suppose. - Read Romans 12: 3.		Choosing to walk modestly with God will therefore help us to think neither too much nor too little of ourselves. - Read Romans 12: 3.
Na still invite this new people.		When new ones attend, we become cohosts, as it were.
Wetin some circuit overseer don see?		Why have some circuit overseers expressed concern?
Which kind training dey bless?		blesses what kind of training?
Wetin show sey don answer Jesus prayer?		What shows that has answered Jesus ' prayer?
NO FOLLOW ' THE WORLD SPIRIT. ' - 1 Cor.		SHUN " THE SPIRIT OF THE WORLD. " - 1 Cor.
Wetin Jesus talk for there really correct!		How true that statement is!
Wetin sey make Zechariah do?		What action is Zechariah now told to take?
How money and property fit be trap for us?		In what way could materialism become a snare for a Christian?
Na im make if any of the 12 apostle wey serve God well die, dem no need to choose another person to complete dem.		Thus, there was no need to replace any faithful apostle who later finished his earthly course.
No let Your Hand Weak '		Do Not Let Your Hands Drop Down "
Why people go meet John the Baptist make e baptize dem? Na to show sey dem don stop to do the bad things wey Moses Law sey make dem no do.		Those submitting to John 's baptism did so as evidence of their repentance over sins against the Mosaic Law.
Your Preaching Be Like Dew?		Is Your Ministry Like the Dew?
Apart from preaching, how we fit make our light shine?		In addition to preaching, how can we let our light shine?
Dey Arrange Im People as Bible Talk		Organized in Harmony With God 's Own Book
After four month, I come choose one brother as my pioneer partner.		After four months, I selected a brother as my pioneer partner.
And Daniel no stop to do this things wey im papa and mama teach am.		Moreover, that love stayed with Daniel all his life.
Apart from sey we go pray for ourself, who again we fit pray for?		In addition to praying for ourselves, for whom else should we pray?
As bullet just dey fly pass me anyhow, I come sofri raise my white handkerchief.		As bullets whizzed around me, I slowly raised a white handkerchief.
Barak pursue Sisera army go where dem dey call Harosheth wey far reach 15 - mile ( 24 km ).		Barak chased Sisera 's army all the way to Harosheth - a 15 - mile ( 24 km ) route.
Blossom papa and mama wey we talk about for the first paragraph, dey worry about their pikin age. Dem want dey sure sey their pikin don big reach to know wetin baptism mean, and to know sey baptism na serious matter.		Blossom 's parents, mentioned in the first paragraph, were understandably concerned whether their daughter was old enough to grasp the significance and seriousness of baptism.
But, after some month, na the refugee dem go care for theirself.		However, often within months, refugees may be expected to support themselves.
But, e no mean sey make dem leave their work for other people.		Yet, that does not negate the parents ' responsibility.
But David get all this things. Even with that one, e no ever carry shoulder.		David had not just one of these assets but all of them; yet, he remained humble throughout his life.
But my husband don really help me make I no de shame. "		Sam has helped me with that over the years. "
But police dey watch wetin e dey do.		His activities did not go unnoticed by the authorities.
But the question na, How Jesus sacrifice go make us get life wey no go end?		But the question is, How does Jesus ' sacrifice make everlasting life possible?
But today, na that kind life we dey live and we get the main things wey we need for life. '		Today we do, and we lack nothing of real importance. "
But why e come be sey many people no dey see food chop?		Why, then, do so many go hungry?
Continue to serve.		Keep up your spiritual routine.
Dem go know sey person get where e suppose do reach. And dem go still know sey good thing or bad thing dey come out of anything wey person do.		They learn that freedom has boundaries and that decisions and conduct have consequences - good or bad.
Dem no die for the Battle of Dunkirk war wey dem go fight.		They were survivors of the Battle of Dunkirk.
Dem no tire or stop to do the work.		They did not get bored or give up.
Dem want dey read, study, and talk to other people about wetin dem don learn.		They wanted to read and study and converse with one another without being told what to think.
Devil come ' use the law arrange trouble. ' for dem.		As a result, he framed " trouble in the name of the law. "
Dey sleep well.		Get sufficient sleep.
E better pass coral stone; you no fit take anything take compare am. '		It is more precious than corals; nothing you desire can compare to it. "
E no surprise us sey, even if all this single sisters wey we talk about get mind, dem still face many problem.		Not surprisingly, the courageous single sisters we interviewed faced challenges.
E no want make dem dey treat people wey dey congregation anyhow because na im Pikin blood e take save dem.		wants us to feel safe in the care of the appointed undershepherds.
E really want make dem near, and e use all im mind help dem.		He was genuinely interested in their spiritual welfare, and he willingly expended himself in their behalf.
E show when Jesus Christ wey be High Priest become King.		The high priest who is made king is named Sprout.
E talk say: " don teach me wetin love be, wetin e mean to share things with people, and wetin e mean to love different - different kind of people.		A sister in France describes her battle: " has taught me what love means, what sharing means, what loving people of all kinds means.
E talk sey: " save the three of dem because dem no gree serve image. "		Then she offered the book to those present.
For example, e get one native doctor wey dem know well well for Madagascar. E see the one mind wey Witness people get.		For instance, a prominent witch doctor in Madagascar observed the harmony enjoyed by 's.
For example, if brother prepare well well for talk wey e want give and after e give am, people come dey praise am for the talk, wetin e go do?		Many praise him for what he has done.
For example, person wey im pikin deaf go try learn sign language, no be so?		But if your child somehow became deaf, would you not try to learn sign language in order to communicate with him?
For example, we get this book wey be Watch Tower Publications Index and Research Guide for 's.		For example, the Watch Tower Publications Index and the Research Guide for 's are produced to help us learn about 's thinking on numerous situations requiring that we make personal decisions.
For this topic, we don learn how fake religion start to dey control correct Christians after all the apostles don die.		Thus far we have seen that true Christians came into Babylonian captivity soon after the death of the last of the apostles.
How Jew people hate Jesus reach?		To what extent did the Jews reject Jesus?
How Zechariah vision fit help us today?		What assurance can God 's people today draw from Zechariah 's prophecy about the chariots and their riders?
How prayer fit help us, and which example for Bible show sey this one na true?		How can prayer help us, and what Bible example proves this?
How we take dey show sey we dey support work today?		How do we show our support for 's sovereignty today?
I know sey I want work for Jesus, wey be the Master. ( Col.		I knew that I wanted to " slave for the Master, Christ. "
If e dey hard us to do good to people, wetin fit help us?		How can we overcome barriers that may hinder us from being hospitable?
If papa and mama dey sofri correct their children, the children go feel sey their papa and mama love dem.		Children who are lovingly disciplined usually feel secure.
If they tell you make you conduct meeting for field service, how you fit help old brothers and sisters?		If you are assigned to handle a meeting for field service, you can do much to help older ones to have a share in the ministry.
If we get this one for mind, we go see correction as better way wey take dey show us sey e love us well well.		When we view divine discipline in that light, we will be more likely to appreciate it for what it truly is: beautiful evidence of God 's unmatched love for us.
Im brothers sell am as slave because dem dey jealous am.		Out of jealousy, his brothers sold him into slavery.
take dew bless us.		Dew is a blessing from.
Like Moses, e dey sweet us sey dem give another person the work wey we think sey na we dem suppose give?		Like Moses, are we not pleased when others receive privileges that might otherwise have come to us?
Make una dey use love do things with each other and dey pity for each other. ' - ZECH.		Judge with true justice, and deal with one another in loyal love and mercy. " - ZECH.
Make we get am for mind sey when we dey sing, we dey worship. This one go make us no dey miss am.		If we truly consider singing as part of our worship, we certainly will not want to walk out on or be absent from that part of the meeting program.
Make you press " Contribute to Support the Work Wey We Dey Do for the Whole World " wey dey down of any page for our website.		To donate online, go to jw.org and click the " Make a Donation to Our Worldwide Work " link near the bottom of any page.
Many of this Zealot de follow one man wey e name na Judas, from Galilee.		Many of those extremists followed the ideas of Judas the Galilean.
Many years don pass wey I don dey fight one thing wey hate.		For years, I have been battling a strong desire for something hates.
Mek wetin you dey learn from Bible mek your faith strong.		Let spiritual food strengthen your faith.
Na everytime e good make we dey pity for people?		Is compassion always appropriate?
Na im Hans come talk sey, " We come hear one talk for convention wey talk about how King David take change im plan when no let am build temple.		Then, " recalls Hans, " we heard a convention talk in which it was mentioned that King David accepted that he would not be allowed to build the temple, so he changed his goal.
Na we choose to serve. So na dem go still choose by theirself. Na the same chance give all of us. - Isa.		Our loving God offers to them, just as he does to us, the opportunity to choose the course they will follow. - Isa.
No let shame make you no talk about the problem to for where your family dey.		Do not feel ashamed to let your family hear such supplications.
One bad thing be sey, we fit miss the better advice wey dey inside some of our book because we feel sey e no concern us.		There is a danger that we could miss out on some benefits because we assume that certain spiritual provisions do not apply to us.
Papa and mama wey get this one for mind suppose ask theirself sey, ' The things wey my pikin know for Bible don reach to make am baptize? '		With that in mind, parents will want to consider the question, ' Does my child have sufficient knowledge to make a dedication to God and get baptized? '
People for this " last days " like many things, and dem think sey that one go really make dem happy. But for the first topic, we go see sey na when person love God e go really happy.		The first of these articles discusses how true happiness comes from loving God and not from the counterfeit types of love so evident in " the last days. "
People like Antipas wey join Christians for apostle time suffer and die like Jesus, but dem no do wetin God no like. ( Rev.		Like Jesus, early Christian martyrs, such as the disciple Antipas, refused to compromise their integrity.
Person wey get hot temper fit change?		Is it possible for an aggressive person to become meek?
Rachel, wey be the wife wey Jacob love, be like Jacob. E wait to see how go do wetin e don promise im husband.		Jacob 's beloved wife, Rachel, was just as eager to see how would fulfill his promise to her husband.
So, come talk sey e go kill people wey dey Sodom and Gomorrah because dem dey put hand for sex matter wey no clean for im eye.		therefore decreed that Sodom and Gomorrah be destroyed because inhabitants of those cities practiced or condoned gross sexual immorality.
So, after six months we only sabi some word for Tagalog language.		Thus, after six months, we knew only a few words of Tagalog.
So, wetin do make people fit understand wetin dey Bible? - Prov.		How would the Bible 's precious treasures be unlocked for them? - Prov.
So if your pikin tell you sey e want baptize because e value wetin e dey learn from Bible, e love, and e want obey am, wetin you go do?		With this example in mind, what can you do when your child expresses a heartfelt appreciation for basic Scriptural teachings, including the meaning and significance of dedication and baptism?
Talk how the third resurrection for Bible take happen.		Explain how Elisha was involved in the third resurrection related in the Bible.
The fourth thing wey go help us no support any side for politics, na to dey think about the example of servant.		A fourth thing that will help us stay neutral is to think about the examples of faithful servants of.
The man listen to wetin Luigi talk from Bible and e enjoy am.		The man took part in the spiritual conversation and appreciated what was being said.
The number of house wey go dey any of the area go be from 150 to 200.		Territories were to be divided into sections of from 150 to 200 homes.
The truth be sey, all of us need money.		We all need money, of course.
The way I dey live my life dey show sey I really believe sey na the last days we dey, and Armageddon go soon come?		Do my actions show that I truly believe that these are the last days and that the end of Satan 's rule is near?
The way we treat or talk to people fit make dem listen to our message or no listen ( Check paragraph 14 )		Keeping calm or losing our temper can directly or indirectly affect our Christian ministry ( See paragraph 14 )
Their mama don reach 80 years that time. But e still happy to go stay with im children.		Though 80 years of age at the time, she gladly accepted the invitation.
This iron de protect the heart, or other important part for body, make sword or arrow no touch - am. This iron for chest na correct example.		But his armor hindered the edge of a sword or the point of an arrow from piercing his heart or other vital organs.
This iron wey the soldiers de wear for chest de make their body no too dey free.		The rest of the soldier 's upper body was covered in more strips of iron fastened to leather.
This people wey " enter cloud " no go " sleep for death. " This one mean sey dem no go die tey.		Those " caught away " will not " fall asleep in death " in the sense of having a long sleep in death.
To continue to make the congregation clean, elders need to comot that person.		But how troubling it must have been for him to have to address the problem of sexual immorality that was being tolerated in that congregation!
Try make you no turn the matter to quarrel, whether the pikin small or e don big.		Be determined not to declare war with your child over this issue, whether he is still quite young or he is now an adolescent.
We arrange make some people wey dey do full - time work for stay our house sometimes.		We arranged to have some who were in the full - time ministry stay in our home.
We need plenty overseer for congregation and we need to dey train brothers wey go be overseer tomorrow.		The need for shepherds in the Christian congregation is great, and those who will do such work in the future need ongoing training.
We no fit do anything wey go make am rich or strong pass as e be.		We cannot make him richer or stronger.
Wetin Deuteronomy 6: 4, 5 mean for us today?		And what meaning do the words of Deuteronomy 6: 4, 5 have for us today?
Wetin fit help person wey dey serve choose whether e go marry?		What can help a Christian to decide whether to get married?
Wetin make Timothy be better elder?		What made Timothy such an outstanding elder?
Wetin we fit learn from the example of God servant dem wey no put hand for politics or war?		What can we learn from faithful servants of who stayed neutral?
Wetin you don ready to do about your preaching?		What is your determination with regard to your ministry?
When give dem new assignment, dem come dey feel sey dem no reach to do am. ( Ex.		Moses and Jeremiah felt inadequate when they received new assignments from.
When Jesus dey this earth, leaders for religion de put hand for politics.		In Jesus ' day, religion was often mixed up in politics.
When the way we de greet and de encourage each other show say we care about each other, e de make our friendship strong.		Yes, greetings that express genuine personal interest and commendation fortify friendships and unite loyal servants of God.
Which miracle Martha go don learn about?		Elijah performed what outstanding miracle, and how does that relate to Martha?
Why e dey fear?		What was Joseph afraid of?
You Go Learn From Their Example?		Will You Apply Your Heart to the Things Written?
You no go fit make dem believe wetin Bible talk once. And no think sey your pikin go believe wetin Bible talk because you believe am.		Conviction does not come about overnight; nor does it pass from you to your offspring simply because you have been persuaded to believe.
You ready to do wetin want, even when other people dey laugh you, or dey talk bad thing about wetin you dey do?		Will you keep ' walking with God, ' even when others mock or criticize you or when economic pressures test your faith in your Provider?
E dey see am sey we really want go meeting and e no go forget all the things wey we dey do to fit go meeting. - Hebrews 6: 10.		He notices that we really want to be at the meetings and values all the effort we make to be there. - Hebrews 6: 10.
Which people example go help us near more more?		What examples will help us to progress in our spirituality?
And dem tell some brothers to go preach for area wey the good news never reach.		And they assigned experienced Christians to advance the evangelizing work in new territories.
If you know sey this kind thing don dey affect you, make you pray make give you im holy spirit.		If you realize that you have to some extent been affected in a negative way, by all means pray for holy spirit.
Papa and mama, make una dey do like. Dey tell your pikin better word wey go make dem strong and dey praise dem anytime dem do better thing.		If we are parents, let us follow 's example by regularly encouraging our children and giving them commendation when they do well.
If papa and mama get this kind love, e go make wetin dem dey teach their pikin, touch im mind.		Similar love will help parents reach the hearts of their children.
This one mean sey the good news go reach everywhere for this world.		That entails a global work.
Nehemiah no control people anyhow.		He continually sought 's direction by consulting God 's Law.
Which time fake religion start to control correct Christians?		When did Christians come under the yoke of Babylon the Great?
How this gift help disciples of Jesus?		How would that gift help Jesus ' disciples?
Which promise King Zedekiah no keep?		What oath did King Zedekiah fail to keep?
Na true sey, e no easy to take time teach your pikin Bible. But no be waste of time. After all, soup wey sweet, na better money kill am. - Deut.		Yes, inculcating God 's Word in your child will require patience, but it is worth the effort. - Deut.
We no waste time talk sey: " We go do am! "		Our immediate response was, " We 'll do that! "
How people wey no get love dey behave?		What negative qualities show that people lack love for one another?
Rev. 13: 1 ) Politics de make people vex, e de divide people, and e de make them fight.		While political issues stir people up, divide them, and provoke senseless violence, we maintain our peace and unity.
The way we take support im work go make am know how to answer Satan lie lie.		He uses your display of support to make a reply to the taunts of Satan.
But Bible no talk sey e do like that.		But there is no record of his doing so.
Dey Treat Stranger Well '		Do Not Forget Kindness to Strangers "
After, e do missionary work for Dominican Republic until 1950 wey the Catholic government wey dey there, come tell am make e comot for the country.		Later, she served as a missionary in the Dominican Republic until she was expelled from that country by the Catholic government in 1950.
After resurrect am, e talk sey: ' Dem don give me all the power for heaven and for this earth.		All authority has been given me in heaven and on the earth, " he declared after his resurrection.
And all of us dey follow how God take arrange things.		And all of us respect the laws of nature.
And you go praise our Papa wey dey heaven like David, wey sing sey: ' I go praise every time; I no go stop to praise am with my mouth.		I will boast in; the meek will hear and rejoice. "
Another thing be sey dem fit see sey their pikin no dey happy to serve because dem dey congregation wey dey use another language.		Second, they may notice in their children a lack of interest in spiritual activities or in the foreign - language field in which they are serving.
As I dey talk with dem, I come see sey Mary love and I like that kind person.		During the interview, I was impressed by Mary 's spiritual attitude.
As Jesus be King and High Priest, which work e go do?		What work does Jesus take on as King and High Priest?
Because of im faith, e preach give dem sey God want destroy the world.		His faith moved him to witness boldly and to warn his contemporaries of God 's coming judgment.
Before Kevin go fit be friend, e must stop all this bad things wey e dey do.		In order to have God 's approval, Kevin would have to give up these unscriptural practices.
But, for December 1952 dem tell me make I come do military service.		However, in December 1952, I was called to report for military service.
But Saul no kill Agag wey be Amalek people king.		However, King Saul was disobedient when he showed what he may have felt was compassion.
But dem no listen to am, instead dem kill am.		Was the son accepted?
But e get some things wey fit help us sing well.		Yet, we can improve our singing by applying some basic suggestions.
But e good make you think about wetin make you believe sey people wey don die go come life again.		Still, it will do each Christian good to reflect on why that is a valid conviction.
But na when police start to use science test different things from people body, dem come know sey na people wey their hand clean dem put for prison.		Only with the introduction of DNA evidence in a review of the case have some been freed after spending decades in prison for crimes they did not commit.
E comot all the juju and people wey dey do prostitute for their juju temple.		He rid his domain of idolatry and expelled the male temple prostitutes.
E dey sweet us when we dey chop our best food. And belle dey sweet us after we sleep better sleep.		We happily do these necessary things without any feeling of constraint or burden.
E no waste time, e come baptize.		What he did next gave clear evidence of his heartfelt appreciation for the truths he had learned.
E sey: ' To dey put mind for the flesh dey bring death. Na so because, person wey dey put mind for the flesh go be God enemy. ' ( Rom.		The apostle Paul warned fellow Christians against pleasing the flesh, saying: " Setting the mind on the flesh means death. because setting the mind on the flesh means enmity with God. "
E tell Nathan make e tell David sey: ' No be you go build the house wey I go stay. '		He told Nathan to tell David: " You are not the one who will build the house for me to dwell in. "
For 1958, e get one international convention wey dem arrange to do for Yankee Stadium and Polo Grounds wey dey New York City.		In 1958 an international convention was to be held in New York City, at Yankee Stadium and Polo Grounds.
For example, maybe you no de fit get better sleep.		To illustrate: Imagine that you are having difficulty sleeping well.
For example, we fit dey think am sey if we enter full - time service now wetin go happen to us if we sick?		As an example, if we enter some feature of the full - time service, what will happen to us if we get sick?
For many years, don use people direct im work for earth.		For millenniums, has directed men to take the lead.
For some place, e pass half of the people wey don marry wey dey end their marriage.		In some lands, more than half of all marriages end in divorce.
How papa and mama fit help children wey fit speak two language learn Bible?		How can parents help children who may need to study in two languages?
How person go take know whether na all im mind e dey use serve?		Each of us can examine his heart to see if it is fully devoted to God.
How we go gain if we dey read our book and other things wey be sey no be Witness be the main people wey we carry for mind write dem?		How can we benefit from reading material written for the public?
How we take dey make people sabi favor?		How do we glorify 's undeserved kindness?
How young people fit win this demons?		How can they hope to win against superhuman, wicked spirit forces?
I remember when I tell my wife say, " Why e come be say na now e want leave us? "		I remember saying to Gloria, " Does he really have to leave now? "
I tell am make I help am carry im load. As I see the sister, I just like am.		When I met Maria, I liked her right from the start.
I thank God sey the horse no kick me. But, na that day my family come know sey I be deaf.		Happily, I was not harmed, but that was the day my family discovered that I was deaf.
If everybody for family dey follow wetin God talk, peace go dey the family and dem go happy.		Applying Bible principles can bring peace and happiness to a family and help them to win the prize.
If person give us gift wey get value well well, we go show the person sey we value wetin e do for us.		When we realize the true value of a costly gift, we are moved to show our gratitude to the giver.
If the person no smile back, e fit be sey problem dey. And you fit make im mind come down if you just listen to am. - Jas.		If there is no smile in return, it could mean that there is a problem, and just listening to the other person may bring comfort. - Jas.
If we look everything wey don make, for heaven and for earth, we go know sey get power well well.		When we contemplate the physical universe, we realize that has great power.
tell Saul make e destroy Amalek people wey be their enemy.		That is not to say that compassion is to be shown in every situation.
Make we come talk about something wey Deborah and Barak talk about for the song wey dem use praise after the war. Dem sey: ' angel talk sey, " Swear for Meroz. Yes, swear for the people wey dey stay there because dem no come help, dem no help fight the strong people. " ' - Judg.		Strangely, though, in the midst of Deborah and Barak 's victory song praising for a miraculous conquest, they sang: " ' Curse Meroz, ' said the angel of, ' yes, curse its inhabitants, for they did not come to the assistance of, to the assistance of with the mighty ones. ' " - Judg.
Many times when their motor spoil, dem go use bicycle or leg take waka for some days until dem reach the town wey near dem pass.		At times, sweating and straining in blazing heat to push their truck over huge dunes, they went through rocky valleys and across sandy riverbeds.
My papa and mama no happy with the Baptist pastor dem wey dey think of only theirself.		My parents were also disappointed by Baptist clergymen who seemed too interested in their own advancement.
Na five years we use preach for different different island wey Witness people no dey.		For five years, we preached mainly on isolated islands where there were no.
Na for the city of Quetta, I first work as pioneer. Before - before, British military people de stay this place.		My first pioneer assignment was Quetta, a former British military outpost.
Na im e go meet some brothers for congregation wey advice am.		Upset, Lucy sought the counsel of mature brothers.
Na morning and night the watchman dem dey stand for the place and for their gate.		Day and night, watchmen were stationed on the walls and at the gates.
Na small small. ( Job 42: 12 - 14 ) For example, e miss all im children wey first die.		Surely Job missed his children who died earlier at Satan 's hand.
Na so e still be when papa and mama dey train their children.		He lets go altogether when the child can keep his balance.
Na so some people from Judea wey they get high position hate Jesus because na Galilee person e be.		Similarly, prominent Judeans despised Jesus because he was a Galilean.
Na we go help dem come out!		We can guide them.
No be just to talk am for mouth, but we go show am for wetin we dey do.		We show such love by actions rather than by words alone.
One sister use the two brochure wey we talk about before take help one young man wey believe sey God no dey.		One sister used the two brochures mentioned earlier with a young man who said that he did not believe that there is a God and that he accepted evolution.
One sister wey im name na Julia Wilcox write sey: ' I no fit talk how body dey sweet me reach anytime wey our book dem talk about the convention for Cedar Point for 1922.		Julia Wilcox wrote: " I simply can 't describe the thrill I get every time Cedar Point 1922 is referred to in our literature.
Person wey dey serve fit talk sey e want get gun wey e go dey use kill animal chop. E fit still want use am protect imself make bush animal no kill am.		A Christian might decide to own a firearm ( such as a rifle or a shotgun ) for hunting animals for food or for protection against wild animals.
Person wey kill another person by mistake, fit run go the city wey arrange. But before dem go allow am enter, e go first ' tell the elders wetin happen. ' ( Josh.		After he accidentally killed someone, a fugitive first had to " present his case in the hearing of the elders " at the gate of the city of refuge to which he had fled.
Russell dey inside the ship wey dem dey call Lusitania		Russell aboard the Lusitania
SONG: 105, 107		SONGS: 6, 24
So Satan give Jesus chance make e rule before the time wey want.		So Satan offered Jesus the chance to fulfill his hope sooner.
So if we don gain well well from our personal Bible study, then we go know how to help other people make dem still gain from their personal Bible study.		And if we tell others how much we have benefited from our personal study of the Bible, we may encourage them to obtain such benefits by being diligent students of the Scriptures.
So small small, dem start to dey teach people this lie lie instead of wetin dey Bible.		Describe how apostate Christianity received the backing of the Roman State and what resulted.
Sometimes, e dey do me like sey make I just stop to fight.		At times, I want to throw my hands up and stop fighting.
That one go give you power to fit handle any lie wey Satan bring. - Phil.		You can be sure that " the peace of God. will guard your hearts and your mental powers " so that you will have the strength to resist all of Satan 's propaganda. - Phil.
The time wey Uzziah start to rule, ' e no stop to do wetin good for eye, ' and ' e no stop to find God. '		At first, Uzziah did " what was right in 's eyes, " and " he kept searching for God. "
This one go help us endure any suffer wey come because of our faith. And we go put eye for wetin we dey wait for because we believe sey e go come.		That, in turn, will enable us to endure trials of faith as we focus on our Christian hope with an " assured expectation. "
Timothy na person wey get faith.		Timothy was a man of faith.
Today, organization fit tell us sey dem need money for something.		Today, we too may be asked to make donations for a specific purpose.
We de obey law so that we go fit preach the good news, as we de hope say things go change one day.		So in order to get the preaching work done, we obeyed the laws, hoping that things would change for the better.
We fit learn better things from Robert story.		We can learn important lessons from Robert 's experience.
We go fit show real love even as we get sin for body?		We are able to show unselfish love because God created us in his image.
We no go worship any other god or worship the way other people take dey worship their god.		Our worship of him cannot be divided or shared with any other gods nor tinged with ideas or practices from other forms of worship.
We no suppose copy the example of people wey dey allow their body control dem.		Conversely, fleshly - oriented people serve as warning examples for us.
Wetin Bible talk about people wey God spirit dey direct?		What does the Bible say about spiritually - minded people?
Wetin fit make us want put all our body for work?		Why can pursuing a secular career sound appealing?
Wetin give dem mind to fit do this work?		What helped them years ago to make the move to a foreign country?
Wetin go help you?		What will help you to do so?
Wetin go help young people make dem no comot mind from their plan?		What will help youths not to be distracted?
Wetin happen come make me remember sey I suppose to dey go meeting everytime. "		How happy she was that she made the effort to attend!
Wetin we fit gain when we continue to preach?		What positive results come from continuing to preach despite persecution?
Wetin young people need to sitdown do? But wetin go help dem make dem no too dey worry?		What must a young person decide about the future, but why is there no need to be overly anxious?
What if your pikin no come too believe wetin Bible talk after e baptize?		What, though, if your son or daughter begins to express doubts at some point after baptism?
When Babylon people carry Daniel and im three friend as slave go Babylon, dem want make Daniel and im three friend dey do things like dem and learn their language.		When Daniel and his companions were exiled, the Babylonians tried to assimilate them into their culture by teaching them " the language of the Chaldeans. "
When we de do wetin Bible talk, we de show say we trust as our God, and we want make peace dey our friendship. ( Jer. 17: 7, 8; Jas.		When we obey 's righteous commands and principles, we show that we trust in him and that we desire to have a peaceful relationship with him.
When we put all the better things wey don happen to us together, e dey make us happy as we dey remember dem. "		When we put together all the upbuilding experiences that we have had, they form a beautiful bouquet of memories that we treasure. "
Whether e don tey wey we dey serve or we just start, all of us go fit continue to do well.		Whether we have enjoyed many years or just a few months in 's service, all of us can make progress in his worship.
Why people no go fear even when government for this world gather to fight dem?		Why do we not need to fear the coming attack on God 's people?
Why e good make you dey pity for people and help dem?		Why do you want to cultivate and show compassion?
Why e no bad make Christian love e self?		Why is a measure of self - love fitting for a Christian?
Word no dey wey fit really explain wetin love be. But Bible tell us how person take dey show am.		Although words cannot easily define the quality of love, the Bible describes the way it is expressed.
You no happy sey dem forgive you?		Do we not appreciate the love and kindness of the brothers and sisters who overlooked our errors?
Na person wey love e dey correct. " - HEB.		Those whom loves he disciplines. " - HEB.
Make you do the things wey you don promise sey you go do. ' - MATT.		You must pay your vows to. " - MATT.
Mek endurance finish im work, so that una go complete and una go mature for everything, nothing go comot. ' - JAMES 1: 4.		Let endurance complete its work, so that you may be complete and sound in all respects, not lacking in anything. " - JAMES 1: 4.
If you be elder, e good make you dey beg God for im spirit. God spirit go help you to dey show love when you dey use Bible advise people.		For instance, if you are an elder in the Christian congregation, you can ask for holy spirit to help you to give Scriptural counsel to others in a loving manner.
Noah get real love for people. Na this one make am no tire to dey preach even when the people no want hear.		Noah displayed unselfish love for his fellow man by preaching God 's message for decades despite not seeing any response from the people.
Whether dem young or old, brothers and sisters fit no get joy again because of problem wey dem dey face. Make we dey with dem, dey advise dem, and tell dem better things wey go make their mind come down. ( Prov.		Whether young or old, brothers and sisters who are discouraged or depressed or who face other trials need our attention, encouragement, and comfort.
Sometimes, because of work and other things wey we dey do, we fit no get time to do personal study.		At times, though, we may find it difficult to engage in meaningful personal study because of our busy routine.
If we dey always think about all this better things, we go get more joy. - Phil.		If we meditate on all these blessings from God, we will see our joy deepen and grow. - Phil.
Jesus and the 144,000 people go form God Kingdom or government, and dem go rule for one thousand years.		The ransom makes possible the gathering of 144,000 to serve as kings and priests with Christ in heaven.
Abeg, mek we dey try.		Will we try our best to do so?
How Job take show sey e dey God side?		What did Job do that showed his integrity to God?
Wetin Jesus know about us and wetin we need?		What did Jesus know about humans and their needs?
Wetin fit make our hand weak?		What might cause our hands to drop down?
Which question we go answer for this topic?		What will we consider in this article?
People wey dey organization no suppose dey complain or do stubborn head, because that kind character fit spoil the love, peace and one mind wey dey all our congregation.		A critical or rebellious spirit has no place in God 's organization, for such an attitude could disrupt our loving, peaceful, and united congregations.
Tim. 2: 24, ftn. ) But the one wey dey make person happy pass be sey, preaching dey help us fit use Bible show people wetin we believe.		But making disciples is especially joyful because it helps you to become more familiar with the Scriptural basis for your faith.
get many way e take dey help im servant dem.		supports his servants ' in various ways.
After Moses comot for Egypt, e use all im life serve.		Once he left behind the riches of Egypt, Moses put his confidence in.
After some years, Pharaoh come release Joseph from prison and e come be the second oga for Egypt after Pharaoh.		Years later, Pharaoh released Joseph from prison and made this humble slave second ruler in Egypt.
And we no go tire or stop to do this work till this world end.		And we will continue to do this work without letup, year in and year out, until the end comes.
Another problem fit be say, that time, many Jew people believe say they better pass other people because Abraham na their papa.		Did the Jews have reason to be proud because they were descendants of Abraham? Many Jews had that deep - seated conviction.
Another thing be sey, we go get life wey no go end, whether for heaven or earth.		And the lasting result is everlasting life, be that in heaven or on earth.
Another thing be sey e no easy for Noah to take care of im family.		Another challenge for Noah was that of providing materially for his wife and children.
Apostle Paul talk sey: ' When dem curse us, we dey bless dem.		We should not try to argue about all their false religious ideas.
Apostle Paul tell all Christian sey make dem no play with the freedom wey don use Jesus give dem.		The apostle Paul urged all Christians not to take for granted the freedom that has kindly given us through his Son, Jesus Christ.
Because as we dey near the end of this world, different different chance to preach go dey.		Training others is vitally important because of increasing needs and opportunities to serve.
Because they no too strong again, some of them no fit de preach like before. Show them say you care about them.		You can also show understanding to those whose health and circumstances limit what they can do.
Bible talk sey dem happy sotey people dey hear their voice from far.		However, opposition soon mounted against their construction project.
But after, the woman regret wetin e do; e come write letter give branch office.		Later, however, she regretted her manner and wrote to the branch office.
But even with this one, e no really believe sey love am.		Even so, she found it a challenge to accept 's love for her.
But if we tire and we stop to fight, e mean sey Satan, this wicked world and the sin wey dey our body fit win us.		In contrast, we could be overcome by Satan, his evil world, and our imperfect flesh if we let our guard down and quit fighting.
But today, e pass 400,000 publishers wey dey the country dem wey first dey among the Soviet Union.		Today, there are over 400,000 publishers in the countries that were once part of the Soviet Union!
David need person wey go help am correct wetin e do.		The king desperately needed help to get back on track.
Dem born me for 1937, inside one farm wey people dey gather do ( kolkhoz ).		I was born in 1937 on a kolkhoz, or collective farm, near Tokmok, Kyrgyzstan.
Dem no gree make God spirit, im angel and im Law direct dem.		Those who did not obey refused to accept the guidance of God 's holy spirit, his angels, and his Word.
Dem sey " if hundred women use IUD for one year, e go hard for even one of dem to get belle. "		This means that fewer than one in 100 women who use an IUD will get pregnant in one year.
Devil na ' papa of lie. '		Satan is " the father of the lie. "
Do wetin you fit do to make sure sey wetin dem dey learn from Bible dey touch dem.		Do whatever you can to ensure that God 's Word reaches your child 's heart.
E dey hide new new Watchtower for inside the boot.		Hidden in the heels of the boots were recent copies of The Watchtower.
E dey surprise people sey na only the money wey people dey use their mind give, we take dey do all the things wey we dey do.		Onlookers cannot understand how it is possible for us to do all this work using only voluntary donations.
E don make dem kill plenty people. E fit be because dem no like where the people come from or dem no like their religion. - Easily Led - A History of Propaganda.		Under its influence, says one scholar, men and women have been " quite easily led into the most preposterously dangerous behaviour " - such as ' genocide, war, racist hysteria, religious intolerance and many other forms of irrational behaviour. ' - Easily Led - A History of Propaganda.
E fit dey think sey if this people continue to do like prophet, Israel people fit no dey respect Moses again.		He evidently thought that they were detracting from Moses ' prominence and authority.
E get any other thing wey better pass this one? Wetin some people don do because dem love God?		But what could make us happier than knowing that we have the approval of the Sovereign of the universe?
E get one time wey the police come dey sweat because of heat. Dust cover the suit wey dem wear.		On one such occasion, the officers were perspiring from the heat, and their suits were covered in dust.
E go write on top one sey: ' This one na for Judah and Israel people wey dey with am. ' And e go write for the other one sey: ' This one na for Joseph, na Ephraim stick, and all the family for Israel wey dey with am. '		He was to write on one stick, " For Judah and for the people of Israel who are with him, " and on the other one, " For Joseph, the stick of Ephraim, and all the house of Israel who are with him. "
E good make Christian learn from how Paul take handle the matter.		It is of interest to Christians today to consider how Paul dealt with the charges.
E know wetin don happen to Israel people before and e know the Law wey give Moses well well.		Jephthah was a mighty warrior, and he knew Israel 's history and the Mosaic Law very well.
E know wetin we fit do and wetin we no fit do and whether we dey do well as we dey serve am.		His attitude toward imperfect servants was demonstrated by his Son.
E sey: ' If dem praise one part, the rest part go happy with am. ' ( 1 Cor.		Thus, rather than feel jealous, we will be happy when others receive blessings.
E talk say: " Na the truth I de talk because I de follow Christ.		He freely admitted: " I am telling the truth in Christ.
For August 1997, our dream come happen.		In August 1997 our long - standing dream was realized.
For July that year, we apply make them take us for Bethel because we really want work for our headquarter.		In July of that year, we applied for Bethel service, for we longed to serve at world headquarters.
How? E fit make stop to dey use im spirit direct the congregation.		Yet, such a course is unloving, for it harms not only the sinner but also others.
How dem go take handle Paul matter for Rome?		How would the Roman authorities have viewed the beliefs that Paul preached?
How truth for Bible be like the belt wey Roman soldiers de wear that time?		How is the truth found in the Bible like a Roman military belt?
How you go feel, if na you stand for front of that kind king to talk about the good news?		How would you feel if you had to defend your faith before such a ruler?
I Come Be ' Everything to Everybody ' ( D.		Word That Meant So Much! ( " daughter " ), Nov.
I come dey feel sey I suppose dey make money to help my family no be to dey do this kind " monkey dey work baboon dey chop " work wey I dey do for this convent.		I felt that I should be earning money to help my family instead of working at the convent to make other people rich.
I dey near more more, and I dey make my friendship with am tight? '		Am I drawing closer to God by nurturing a personal relationship with him? '
I know sey we be one! '		I feel that we are a real team! "
I pray make I continue to hold tight. "		I pray that I will never let him go. "
I remember one night, I see one man sitdown for front of e house and e wear cloth of KKK people.		I remember seeing a man sitting on his front porch one Halloween night proudly wearing a white sheet and hood, as those in the KKK did.
If e be like that, dem fit go back to congregation wey dey use the language wey go make their pikin stand well for side. - Read Deuteronomy 6: 5 - 7.		In such circumstances, Christian parents might consider moving back to a congregation that uses the language their children best understand until their children take a firm stand for the truth. - Read Deuteronomy 6: 5 - 7.
If we dey settle quarrel with the mind to make peace, the better thing wey go come out, fit surprise us.		When we address conflicts or differences with the goal of making peace, we may be surprised at the excellent results.
Instead, as e do the work finish, e go back to im house. - Judg.		Rather, as soon as he could, he gladly returned to his former place. - Judg.
Instead, make we try to see why dem talk like that, and make we pity dem.		But instead of judging them, let us show insight and compassion.
Instead, na two times Jesus hear im Father voice from heaven when e talk sey: ' Na my Son be this, wey I choose. I like am well well. ' ( Matt.		Instead, on two occasions Jesus heard his Father speak from heaven and say: " This is my Son, the beloved, whom I have approved. "
family for heaven and earth go be one family.		There will be complete unity between the heavenly and earthly parts of his family.
know wetin you fit do for am.		always considers how each of us might best be used in his service.
tell am sey: " Abeg, carry your only pikin Isaac wey you love well well.		said: " Take, please, your son, your only son whom you so love, Isaac, and. offer him up. as a burnt offering. "
Jesus Christ sey im Father for heaven dey use im Son bring people come im side.		Jesus Christ said that his heavenly Father draws people to himself through His Son.
Jesus talk sey God spirit go help us remember things wey we don learn.		Jesus taught that God 's spirit can bring back to our mind things that we have learned.
Jesus talk sey im disciples angel dey look God face. ( Matt.		Jesus spoke of his disciples ' angels looking upon the face of God.
Joseph wey be Abraham great - grand pikin still show sey e ready to wait for.		Abraham 's great - grandson Joseph also showed a willingness to be patient.
King David beg for Psalm 55: 1 sey: ' Hear my prayer, O God. '		The psalmist David begged: " Listen to my prayer, O God. "
Life no easy for am because e no fit born pikin and im husband second wife dey laugh am well well. Na that one make Hannah promise something. ( 1 Sam.		She made her promise when she was in great anguish and distress over her barrenness and the constant insults she was subjected to.
Luke 2: 37 talk sey: ' E dey always go temple. E dey fast and e dey pray well well. Na so e take dey worship God for there day and night. '		Luke 2: 37 states: " She was never missing from the temple, rendering sacred service night and day with fasting and supplications. "
Make we talk about apostle Paul again.		Think of the apostle Paul.
Marriage - How E Start and Why E Dey?		Maintain Your Spiritual Health While Serving in a Foreign Field, Oct.
Na Jesus be the " true vine, " na be " the caretaker of the farm " and the different - different " branch " na e disciples.		Jesus described as " the cultivator, " himself as " the true vine, " and his disciples as " the branches. "
Na good thing make person take care of e family and do other fine things.		It is commendable when people provide for their families and strive to accomplish something worthwhile.
Na true sey you know why e good to use all your mind do work.		Very likely, you appreciate the importance of wholehearted service to God.
No let anybody make you change your mind.		Do not be distracted by peer pressure.
One man wey study science, wey im name na David Bodanis, talk sey the amount of power wey dey come out from the sun every second, plenty well well.		Science writer David Bodanis observed: " The mass our Sun is exploding into energy each second is equivalent to [ billions of atomic ] bombs. "
Police people dey come meet us sometimes and ask us wetin we dey do.		A couple of times, the police came to the house and demanded to know what we were doing.
Satan never fit fool plenty young people. Kiana na one of them and e dey 20 years.		Like many young Christians, 20 - year - old Kiana has not been fooled by this deception.
So, people wey dey go convention, go use horse or leg take waka for some days before dem fit reach where train dey.		Thus, delegates had to ride mules or walk for days just to reach a train that would take them to the convention city.
So ask yourself say: ' How my neighbors de see me?		Ask yourself: ' How do my neighbors view me?
Sometimes, the family wey the Messiah pass come na firstborn. But no be everytime e happen like that.		Sometimes that line passed to and through the firstborn son - but not always.
THE time wey Kevin start to serve, wetin dey im mind pass na make e be friend.		UPON learning the truth, Kevin wanted nothing more than a close relationship with.
The answer come be: ' From wetin Bible talk, dem no fit. '		The answer was: " The Scriptural evidence points to the conclusion that they do not. "
The brothers and sisters for there come ready to go preach. Dem really put body for the preaching work. And dem know sey go bless dem.		After the convention, a newly appointed branch overseer organized the work, and zealous went ahead with renewed strength and with 's blessing.
The sister dey sofri manage, and e dey do am somehow for body to invite oyibo people wey dey English congregation come im house. But after, e follow oyibo people go preaching, and visit dem for their house. The way dem take treat the sister, make am happy.		But after sharing in the preaching work with the white and enjoying hospitality in their homes, she exclaimed, " They are normal people just like us! "
They hate partial, they get love for their family, and they love to help people.		He adds: " They do not always agree with our beliefs.
Think about wetin God tell Abraham make e do im pikin Isaac.		Think of what God told Abraham to do with Isaac, the long - awaited heir.
This one make God leave am?		Was he cut off from his God?
This two topic talk about the sixth, seventh, and eighth vision wey Zechariah see.		These articles discuss Zechariah 's sixth, seventh, and eighth visions.
Today, many people dey try to get peace for their life.		Many people struggle to find peace of mind.
Una fit let am tell the elders. Na the elders go check whether e don reach to baptize.		You Christian parents may conclude that he can contact the congregation elders to see if he meets the qualifications to get baptized.
Use All Your Mind Serve!		Give Success to All Your Plans, " July
We dey quick vex if person talk bad about where we come from?		And how do we react when someone makes fun of our nationality - maybe by exaggerating some feature of our culture?
Wetin King David do when tell am sey na im pikin go build the temple?		How did King David respond when told that his son would build God 's temple?
Wetin Satan talk mean sey, no want make Adam and Eve chop the fruit because if dem chop am, dem go get sense pass as dem get.		Satan implied that did not want them to eat the fruit because doing so would enlighten them.
Wetin Willie talk make my mama vex because my mama know sey im papa na good person.		What Willie said upset my mother because she knew that her father was a good man.
Wetin go help us no fall for things wey fit put us for trouble?		How can we protect ourselves in dangerous situations?
Wetin my wife tell me just be like story story.		To me, it sounded like a fairy tale.
Wetin this one mean? E mean sey hate am when people wey never marry dey sleep together. E fit be man wey dey sleep with man, or woman wey dey sleep with woman.		The meaning of the original Bible word translated " sexual immorality " includes sexual relations between individuals who are not legally married to each other and homosexuality.
Wetin we fit learn from Abraham story?		We can learn what about the resurrection from the account about Abraham?
Wetin we no go use our freedom do?		What must we never do with our gift of free will?
Wetin you go do if your friend do something wey bad well well?		What would you do if you had a friend who made a significant mistake or committed a serious sin?
When e dey 18 years, one Russia police start to dey disturb am to sleep with am. But e no gree.		When she was 18 years old, a KGB officer began to harass her and tried to force her to commit immorality with him, but she firmly rejected his advances.
When e dey hospital, e preach to people wey dey work for there, people wey come take treatment, and visitors.		While being treated at medical facilities, she witnessed to hospital staff, patients, and visitors.
Which advice Bible give wey fit help us control how we dey feel?		What counsel does God 's Word give us about controlling our emotions?
Which kind character go fit help us be like soft clay for God hand?		What qualities can help us to remain moldable in God 's hands?
Why e good mek we learn about the story of ' people wey don endure '?		Why should we consider the experiences of " those who have endured "?
Why e good to put mind for wetin you want do for, when you still dey young?		Summarize the benefits of being focused on spiritual goals early in life.
Why we really need to " dey do good " to our brothers and sisters?		Why is it so important to " be hospitable to one another "?
Why we suppose dey thank?		What are some reasons why we should be thankful to?
Why you believe sey go always do the correct thing?		Why do you trust that God is always just?
You promise sey you go love am and you ready to put wetin e want as the number one thing for your life.		It is a solemn promise that you made to to love him and to put his will above everything else.
Luke 17: 10 ) Remember sey because Hezekiah start to raise shoulder, e no come show sey e like wetin do for am.		Here again, we can learn from Hezekiah 's experience.
our God, na only you reach to get all the power, praise and respect because na you make everything. ' - REV.		You are worthy, our God, to receive the glory and the honor and the power, because you created all things. " - REV.
E good to help people know sey prayer no be just wetin fit make person mind come down. But prayer na how we take dey talk to wey dey show us favor! ( Heb.		How good it is to teach others that far from being a mere psychological crutch, prayer is a wonderful means of approaching 's " throne of undeserved kindness "!
E go help us stand when something dey push us to do bad. This one go make us continue to be God friend.		Second, the ability to resist temptation and to control inappropriate impulses is fundamental to retaining God 's favor.
E dey control politics and news wey dey this world.		He manipulates the political elements of this world, as he does the world 's mass media.
We no go expect make the organization tell us the kind things wey we go watch, and the one wey we no go watch.		We should not expect God 's organization to supply a list of acceptable and unacceptable entertainment.
The thing wey Jesus command us to do na the thing wey want. So when we obey, and go preach as Jesus command us, we de show say we love. ( Matt.		Moreover, by carrying out Jesus ' command to go and preach, we too show our love for God because Jesus ' commandments reflect his Father 's thinking.
We happy well well sey get this kind love for us!		How grateful we are for 's unselfish love!
This thing wey Enoch talk go don make Noah get hope and make im faith strong well well. Wetin Enoch talk happen for im time, and e go still happen for Armageddon.		Enoch 's message, which will have its final fulfillment at Armageddon, surely reinforced Noah 's faith and hope!
Because Jephthah pikin want serve, e leave the normal thing wey e for like to do, wey be to marry and to born pikin.		She sacrificed her natural desires for a husband and children in order to serve.
Wetin happen wey show sey apostle Peter no do wetin e talk?		How did the apostle Peter fail to keep his word?
How we fit help our children and new people see sey e good to dey contribute?		How can we train our children and new ones to have a share?
Wetin Bible talk about people wey don marry wey want leave their husband or wife go stay their own?		What does the Bible say about separation?
Wetin we go talk about for this topic?		What will we consider in this article?
Which better things dey for front for us?		What blessings await us?
Wetin be some things wey fit make us fight make God bless us?		How might we have to wrestle for God 's blessing?
But, like smoke wey dem no fit hide, wetin David do later come out.		Inevitably, David 's sins came to light.
Satan de use business fool people.		Satan also promotes lies through the commercial system.
This na lesson for us!		What a lesson for us!
So make all of us continue to show love ' no be for mouth, but make e show for wetin we dey do and make e dey real. '		May we continue to show our love not just " in word " but also " in deed and truth. "
Wetin we learn from the advice wey e dey Ecclesiastes 11: 6?		What lesson can we learn from the instruction found at Ecclesiastes 11: 6?
And na wetin happen to Shebna be that as dem comot am from im position.		First, Shebna lost his position.
Wetin You Know About Your Enemy?		Know Your Enemy
law good for our body!		What a protection divine laws and commandments have proved to be!
King Uzziah for Judah really carry shoulder up.		King Uzziah of Judah certainly displayed pride.
All this things go help Christian for different different area for this world know wetin dem go do for this matter.		Applying such principles will likely affect how Christians in different parts of the world view the giving of gifts and tips.
And make we do everything wey we fit do to make sure sey we dey go meeting and gain from other things wey dey teach. - Heb.		And we do what is within our power to benefit from Christian meetings and other spiritual provisions. - Heb.
E want make we dey happy.		He wants you to be happy.
Aaron arrange im time well so that e go fit dey do im Bible reading, dey prepare for meeting, and dey answer question for meeting.		Aaron pursued a spiritual routine that included Bible reading, preparing for meetings, and commenting at them.
After, we go learn about other people example and how take surprise dem.		Then, we will review some additional Scriptural examples of how did the unexpected.
After I don work for two years, I come tell another circuit overseer sey I want pioneer.		After working for two years, I consulted another circuit overseer about pioneering.
All this things make me see sey na only God Kingdom fit give me better tomorrow.		I increasingly realized that the Kingdom was my only hope for the future.
And e no go hard am to do bad.		Sinning can then become easier.
And if dem continue to serve, dem fit help their family get strong love for.		They can also make a valuable spiritual contribution.
Anyhow e be, wetin Jesus talk show sey we no need to rush call elders for the matter.		Whatever the case, Jesus ' words indicate that the congregation should not get involved in disagreements prematurely.
Around that time, one English missionary give my papa and mama some books wey they get fine - fine color.		About that time, my parents obtained a set of brightly colored books from an English missionary.
As e talk am finish, the woman come get up. Peter come " show dem the woman wey don come back to life. "		She came to life right away, and Peter " presented her alive " to fellow Christians.
Bible still talk about many people wey no let their joy go down even when dem face wahala. Abraham na one of dem.		We can also find many Biblical examples of humans who maintained joy in the face of trying circumstances.
Bible talk say people be like water for sea. Water for sea de go up and down, e no de quiet. ( Isa.		The Bible likens humanity to a sea that tosses and turns, a sea that knows no peace.
But, for country wey be sey to bribe na normal thing, make Christian think am well before e give money so that e no go do wetin God no like.		In an environment where corruption is common, however, a Christian needs to be on guard so that the boundary between what is acceptable and what is unacceptable from God 's standpoint does not become blurred for him.
But, we fit know where we suppose do reach even when e no easy?		It is possible, though, to remain modest under test.
But even as e small reach, e fit help us today.		Yet, it truly is of great value to Christians today.
But na David family the Messiah come from. ( 1 Sam.		Yet the line of the Messiah was through David.
But na that kind mind dey help settle problem and make marriage strong.		Sincerely saying " I am sorry for hurting you " takes humility and courage, but it goes a long way in solving problems and drawing marriage partners closer together.
But the Romans no give dem the power to kill people wey do bad, na only dem fit do that one.		One limitation imposed on the competence of Jewish courts, however, concerned the execution of criminals - a right that the Romans generally reserved for themselves.
But the truth be sey, many people poor well well. And some people over get money, sotey e go reach to take care of their great great grand pikin wey dem never born.		While such a figure is difficult to confirm, no one disputes that billions of people are desperately poor, while others have enough wealth to last for many lifetimes.
Dem dey put first and dey try do wetin dem plan to use their life do for am.		They commit themselves to and focus their lives on theocratic goals.
Dem fit dey worry sey if dem old, their pikin no go fit take care of dem.		The parents may fear that their child will not be able to care for them when they are old.
E clear sey to promise God something, na serious matter.		It is clear, then, that it is a very serious matter to make promises to God.
E dey make us get mind sey things go better and we no go too dey feel sey na only us dey.		Yes, your showing compassion will benefit you.
E no dey mind make marriage end or sey make person marry pass one husband or wife.		There was no arrangement for divorce or for having more than one mate at the same time.
E no give am anything, e no even give am small land wey e go put im leg. But e promise am sey e go give am the land to be im own, and im children own. That time e never get any pikin. '		We are told: " Yet, he [ ] did not give him [ Abraham ] any inheritance in it, no, not even enough to put his foot on; but he promised to give it to him as a possession and after him to his offspring, though as yet he had no child. "
E no go hard anybody to quick run reach there, if e kill person by mistake. - w17.11, p.		A man could thus find refuge relatively quickly and conveniently. - w17.11, p.
E talk say: " I de remind myself say I be Witness and say temptation na one of the way Satan de use attack me.		I remind myself that I bear 's name and that temptation is just Satan 's way of shooting at me.
Even elders wey dey Hospital Liaison Committee and elders wey dey arrange convention dey do big work.		Think, too, of elders who carry weighty responsibilities with Hospital Liaison Committees and convention organization.
For example, Bible sey: ' E dey let im sun shine for wicked and good people, and e dey let im rain fall for good and bad people. ' ( Matt.		Consider one example: " He makes his sun rise on both the wicked and the good and makes it rain on both the righteous and the unrighteous. "
For example: Maybe we want pioneer, na im we come start to arrange things for our life so that nothing go disturb us when we start.		In order to make this possible, we begin taking steps to simplify our life.
For that paradise, we go enjoy peace and love reach ground.		Then, our spiritual paradise will have its perfect counterpart - a literal paradise under the rulership of God 's Kingdom.
For the night before Jesus die, e talk say: " I give wuna my peace. "		Earlier on that last evening before his death, Jesus told his apostles: " I give you my peace. "
For the village dem wey near Suva wey be the capital of Fiji, brothers and sisters dey happy to preach give everybody wey dem meet		Brothers and sisters in rural areas outside of Suva, the capital of Fiji, happily share the good news with all whom they encounter
God no dey talk to Governing Body from heaven as e take talk to some people for Bible time.		The Governing Body is neither inspired nor infallible.
How Jesus example fit help us when dem give us another work for congregation?		What can we learn from Jesus ' example when we receive a change of assignment?
I Go Help You '		I Will Help You "
I come fit continue to help people wey never fit learn about! "		I could continue to help those who had not had a chance to learn about! "
I happy as I still join people wey dey make work dey grow for Philippines		Happy to continue sharing in the growth in the Philippines
I still dey worry about how to get money wey go reach me travel.		There was also the problem of getting the funds needed to move to a foreign land.
I thank sey e give me friend wey dey think about my matter before im own. '		I thanked that I had a friend who put my welfare above her own feelings. "
If e dey do you like that, still try hold tight. Remember sey na your love for suppose strong pass.		If you feel this way, strive to put your loyalty to ahead of your love for your family.
If we check wetin Paul talk for 1 Corinthians 10: 13 again, we go see sey Bible no give us any reason to believe sey dey first check the kind problem wey we fit bear, then choose the one wey we go face.		A further consideration of Paul 's words recorded at 1 Corinthians 10: 13 leads us to this conclusion: There is no Scriptural reason to believe that assesses in advance what we can bear and then, based on such an assessment, chooses which trials will befall us.
and Jesus dey see people wey dey try to make sure sey dem go Memorial.		Surely and Jesus take note of who makes the effort to attend this most important meeting of the year.
remove Shebna from im position, because of im bad character. E come give im position to Eliakim. ( Isa.		Because Shebna pursued glory for himself, God ' threw him out of his office ' and replaced him with Eliakim.
tell am make e comot from one city wey dem dey call Ur. Even though money dey the place, Abraham do wetin talk because e want be Im friend.		Abraham, a man of faith in ancient times, obediently left prosperous Ur in order to live in tents and pursue his friendship with.
Jesus tell im disciple dem sey: ' If una use my name beg for anything, I go do am. '		Jesus told his disciples: " If you ask anything in my name, I will do it. "
My grandpapa come tell me sey make I go.		My grandfather urged me to go.
My mama come get one bad sickness wey dem dey call cancer.		Then my mother was diagnosed with cancer.
Na faith dey make us do wetin want.		It is a powerful motivating force that impels a person to act in harmony with God 's will.
Na im make, after Adam and Eve sin, allow dem born children.		Thus, after Adam and Eve sinned, allowed them to have children.
Na im still be head for family. What if na your wife no dey serve? E still good make you love am and dey treat am well. - Eph.		Likewise, an unbelieving wife should be shown self - sacrificing love and tender affection by her Christian husband. - Eph.
Na me be that small girl for Pastillo wey no get shoe. "		I am the little girl from Pastillo who had no shoes. "
Na so Deborah and Barak take start to praise for their song because e help dem win the war.		Thus, Deborah and Barak began their victory song with praise, not to creatures, but to the Most High.
Na the love wey we get for na im make us want use all our mind do wetin go make am happy.		We who have come to know and love desire with all our heart to do what pleases him.
Na to make peace better pass.		Being at peace with our fellow worshippers is of utmost importance.
Na wetin happen to Jesus be that.		It can change over time.
Na wetin una need be this! " ' - Read 1 Timothy 6: 8.		This is all you need! ' " - Read 1 Timothy 6: 8.
No be small money we spend as we dey travel go Balykchy that time.		Those years of traveling between Tokmok and Balykchy cost a lot of money.
No forget wetin don promise, dey think about am, feel am like sey don already do am and make you still dey tell other people. ( 1 Tim.		Do not those words touch your heart?
People dey suffer you or no want mek you dey serve?		Are you suffering bitter opposition or even persecution?
People wey be refugee want make we help dem continue to learn about and to show dem love.		More than material assistance, refugees need spiritual and emotional support.
Remember how e pain Paul for body sey e be slave to sin and death.		Recall the misery and pain of conscience that Paul suffered because of feeling captive to sin and death.
Rudolf endure all this suffer and the time wey we write about im story wey dey August 1, 1997, Watchtower, page 20 - 25, e be regular pioneer and elder, even though sey e don old and e no strong again.		Rudolf endured all these trials and, although aged and sickly, was serving as a regular pioneer and an elder when his life story appeared in the August 1, 1997, issue of The Watchtower, pages 20 - 25.
See wetin e try make Jesus do.		Consider the way he dealt with Jesus.
So, dem sey dem no go do anything with fake religion again.		Accordingly, they resolved to have nothing to do with false religion as they understood it.
So, e no good for papa and mama to dey tell their pikin make e never baptize.		Thus, rather than discourage a child from getting baptized, wise parents work hard to set the right example.
Some people don follow wetin Bible talk. How that one don help them change their character and enjoy true peace with, with theirself, and with other people?		How have some applied this Scriptural counsel and made needed changes that allowed them to experience lasting peace - with, with themselves, and with fellow humans?
That kind sense go make us sofri talk to person wey do wetin make us vex. And we go dey near more more, the Person wey im sense no dey ever finish.		Such wisdom will move us to respond mildly when provoked and will draw us ever closer to the Source of infinite wisdom,.
That time, nobody go hungry.		At that time, no one will go hungry.
The ark wey Noah build show people sey e dey use all im mind do wetin God talk.		The ark was a physical structure that provided undeniable visible evidence that Noah was devoted to the doing of God 's will.
The time wey I don take serve don show me sey, e no easy to hold tight. But the peace of mind wey dey give us better pass wetin we suffer.		My years of service to have taught me that keeping integrity comes at a cost but the inner peace that gives in return is a treasure of surpassing value.
The truth be say, for many years, my boyfriend na terrorist. "		In fact, for many years I was the girlfriend of a terrorist. "
Things scatter! ( 2 Chron.		The results were disastrous.
This brother dey around 25 years, and e give me one old bicycle make I de use - am preach.		George gave me an old bicycle that I could ride ( or push ) around the hilly territory.
This one fit make us ask sey: Na when Jesus Christ just start to rule for one thousand years e go resurrect people wey die for our time?		Will those who died recently be raised near the start of Christ 's Thousand Year Reign and be welcomed by loved ones who know them?
This topic go help you prepare your own answer. - Read 1 Peter 3: 15.		Using these worksheets, you can prepare an answer to one question after another. - Read 1 Peter 3: 15.
We believe am well well. We no be like Sadducee people wey no believe sey people wey don die go fit come life again.		In holding that conviction, we differ from the Jewish Sadducees, who strongly denied that the dead are raised.
We really enjoy the time wey we take do circuit and district work. So when this new work come, body no sweet me.		We had greatly enjoyed the traveling work, so at first I felt very apprehensive about the change.
Wetin Bible talk about people wey dey happen now?		How did the Bible foretell the increase of 's people?
Wetin Boaz tell am make im mind come down, e tell am sey: ' Dem don tell me everything wey you do for your husband mama, [ Naomi wey im husband don die ].		Boaz answered by giving further reassurance: " A full report was made to me of all you have done for your mother - in - law [ the widow Naomi ].
Wetin again dey God mind?		What else was part of God 's purpose?
Wetin go help us choose wetin good?		What will help us to make wise decisions?
Wetin go help us endure as we de preach?		What will help us to keep bearing fruit with endurance?
Wetin help the apostles continue to be friends with Jesus?		What did the apostles have to do to remain his friends?
Wetin we fit learn from how the cherub take do their work for Eden?		What do we learn from the example of the cherubs posted at Eden?
Wetin you don learn from the city wey tell Israel people to build, and how you plan to use am?		What lesson from the cities of refuge do you plan to apply?
What if the pikin na pioneer and still dey stay with dem for house? You no think sey im papa and mama go happy if e dey give dem some money to buy things for house?		A son or a daughter who may be pioneering and living at home may rightly give the parents some funds to assist with household expenses.
When Brother Rutherford talk " Advertise! "		When Brother Rutherford said " Advertise! "
When I go use their toilet, I notice as one white man follow me. The man rough and e draw plenty tattoo for e body.		I went to use the men 's restroom, and I noticed that a very rough - looking character, tattooed like a white supremacist, got up and followed me.
When go destroy bad people, e go save people wey baptize and wey no leave am.		This makes dedication and baptism very important.
When one brother wey be pioneer dey tell one man for Ireland about God, the man bring im wallet come out.		Some years ago, a pioneer in Ireland spoke to a man about God.
Wicked people, bad government, religion and business plus the bad things wey people dey do, don make condition for this world bad well well.		Wicked people, corrupt organizations, and wrong activities all work together to produce distressing living conditions on this earth.
You carry shoulder up?		Did pride come into play?
You dey forgive brothers and sisters wey do wetin vex you?		Do you forgive fellow believers freely?
You go see sey, to go preach for another country dey make person happy. ' - Margaret		You can be sure that serving abroad leads to a happy life. " - Margaret
You no think sey go happy when e see sey we dey do everything wey we fit do to near am and im Pikin?		How do you think feels when he sees that you are doing all you can to draw close to him and his Son?
You remember wetin tell Joshua? E tell am sey: ' Make this Law no comot for your mouth. Make you dey read am day and night and think about wetin you read, so that you go fit put eye for ground do everything wey dem write for inside. Na that one go make your way smooth and na that time you go dey use sense do something. '		Recall that God told Joshua: " This book of the Law should not depart from your mouth, and you must read it in an undertone day and night, in order to observe carefully all that is written in it; for then your way will be successful and then you will act wisely. "
Your mind go rest?		Obviously not.
paragraph 14 ) Check chapter 21 for the book God 's Kingdom Rules!		paragraph 14 ) See chapter 21 of the book God 's Kingdom Rules!
or ' Why we no dey put hand for things like election, to make our country better? '		or,  Why don 't we get involved in the community - with elections, for example - to try to improve things? '
That time, dem no dey too talk for preaching; na book dem dey share pass.		First of all, the main work being done in those days involved the distribution of Bible literature.
James ask im brothers wey go join am rule with Jesus for heaven sey: ' No be God choose people wey this world dey see as poor people come make their faith rich and make dem fit join rule for the Kingdom, wey e promise people wey love am? ' ( Jas.		James asked his anointed brothers: " Did not God choose those who are poor from the world 's standpoint to be rich in faith and heirs of the Kingdom, which he promised to those who love him? "
[CONTENT_REMOVED]		See the box " The Bible and Prayer Changed Their Lives. " )
We no dey always know wetin go come from wetin we choose. And we no fit know whether wetin we choose go always favor us.		We have to admit that we do not always know what the outcome of our choices will be; nor do we know whether they will turn out for our good every time.
And as our love for the truth de grow, e go easy to wear the iron for chest wey Paul talk about. This one mean say e go easy to live our life the way God want because of our love for the truth.		And the more we love divine truths, the easier it is to carry our " breastplate, " that is, to live by God 's righteous standards.
Instead, Jesus want teach dem sey, even when people carry things wey dem take dey fight come meet dem, make dem no fight.		Rather, Jesus had them bring a sword for an object lesson to teach them not to resort to violence, even when confronted by an armed crowd.
Janet follow that advice for Bible, when e see sey im friend no dey talk to am again.		Janet concluded that she needed to take that truth more to heart.
How Timothy take become Christian, and wetin e do?		Under what circumstances did Timothy become a Christian, and how did he respond to Christian teachings?
Wetin Paul talk about wetin e dey fight with?		How did Paul feel about his struggles?
Wetin fit make some people no dey use all their heart sing for meeting or assembly?		What might prevent some from singing out joyfully at our meetings and assemblies?
Which question dem we go talk about?		What questions will we consider?
Which things wey Peter talk about go fit help us?		What qualities did Peter say we should look for in ourselves?
So, e really good make we de make our faith strong.		How important it is that we build up our faith!
So e make sense to believe sey now, Jesus know the time wey Armageddon go come.		Thus, it is reasonable to conclude that Jesus now knows when Armageddon will occur.
For some place for this world, e dey hard dem to treat other people with respect.		This can be a challenge in some parts of the world.
For 2011, water and earthquake scatter people things for Japan. One sister dey stay for the area wey e happen.		One Japanese sister lived in an area that was seriously damaged by the earthquake and tsunami of 2011.
But God still want make dem dey use all their heart serve am. ( Ex.		Yet, at the same time, he required their exclusive devotion.
So why we go dey feel sey we better pass other people?		So why should we feel superior to anyone else?
Na the best thing wey anybody fit wait for be that.		Such expectations are the most noble any human can cherish.
After God resurrect Jesus, two of e disciple talk with Jesus for road when them de go Emmaus. Them talk how they expect say na Jesus for free Israel people.		The two disciples who met the resurrected Jesus on the road to Emmaus also had unfulfilled hopes about the Messiah.
After e die, " dem come bury David for where dem bury im papa - papa dem. And na for David City dem bury am. " ( 1 Ki.		After he died, he " was laid to rest with his forefathers and was buried in the City of David. "
And we no go be like river wey breeze dey blow up and down. - Jas 1: 5 - 8; 4: 8.		[CONTENT_REMOVED]
And young people be like the passengers for the park.		Young people today might be likened to those passengers.
Apart from that one, dem promise God something and dem do am.		Each was under a vow to God, and they both faithfully paid their vow to him.
As Abigail think wetin go happen if David do wetin e get for mind, e come do something. Wetin Abigail do, show sey e get mind.		Discerning the grave consequences of the hasty action being planned, Abigail courageously intervened.
As time dey go, we come dey write letter give each other.		Eventually we began writing to each other.
Before we answer this question, e good make we first think about this proverb for Bible, e sey: ' Word wey person talk for the correct time, good well well! ' - Prov.		Before answering that question, we would do well to think about this proverb: " A word spoken at the right time - how good it is! " - Prov.
Beulah Covey talk sey: " E be like sey as dem just fight war finish, people really want make things better. "		It seemed that after a war and so much sorrow, everyone welcomed even the thought of a golden age, " observed Beulah Covey.
Bible advise us sey make we dey do well for God work. ( 1 Tim.		The Scriptures encourage all of us to make advancement.
Bible talk sey mek we dey respect people. - Titus 3: 1, 2.		The Bible explains that we should not insult others. - Titus 3: 1, 2.
Brother Knorr die for 1977. But the people wey know am and wey love am know sey, e no leave. This one make their mind come down. ( Rev.		Brother Knorr died in 1977, but those who knew and loved him were comforted because he had finished his earthly course faithfully.
But, like Hezekiah, we fit still pray to sey: ' Na all my mind I don use serve you and I no ever leave you. '		Still, as did Hezekiah, each of us can say to in prayer: " I have walked before you faithfully and with a complete heart. "
But know sey na the suffer make am talk like that. ( Job 6: 1 - 3 ) God see Job as person wey no stop to serve am, even though sey Satan suffer am and lie for im head. Later, come bless Job.		God saw a deeply depressed man who never turned his back on Him, even though Satan, in effect, threw Job to the ground and then verbally kicked him with lying insults.
But anybody wey no get power to swim, go drink water till e die.		The person who gives up when he starts to swim will drown.
But if this kind thing happen for congregation, e fit hard dem to bear.		Christians expect to experience some injustice outside the Christian congregation.
But na David family the Messiah come from. - w17.12, pp.		David was not Jesse 's firstborn son; yet, the Messiah descended from David. - w17.12, pp.
But no matter wetin e be, make we no let anything stop us to read Bible.		Still, we cannot afford to let anything - even legitimate responsibilities - disrupt our Bible reading routine.
E get one time, wey Jesus go visit Mary and im sister wey im name na Martha for their house.		On one occasion, Jesus visited the home of Mary and her sister, Martha.
E go give us rest of mind wey go fit make our mind come down and help us forget wetin dey worry us.		By giving us inner calm that can free our mind and heart of disturbing emotions.
E just open eye dey do wetin go pain me?		Is he maliciously trying to cause me discomfort?
E know sey Pharaoh want make dem kill any boy wey Hebrew woman born. But Bible tell us sey ' e pity ' for the pikin and e train am like im own. - Ex.		Though she realized that the infant she had found was a child of the Hebrews and should not be kept alive, " she felt compassion for him " and decided to raise the child as her own. - Ex.
E no get person wey dey gentle and wey dey patient reach.		God is the best example of showing mildness and patience.
E no tire, e get hope sey God go help am.		She never gave up hope.
E sey: " ' Eye never see, and ear never hear. And nobody don ever think for im heart the things wey God don arrange for people wey love am. '		Highlighting this contrast, Paul wrote: " ' Eye has not seen and ear has not heard, nor have there been conceived in the heart of man the things that God has prepared for those who love him. '
E talk sey: ' Last last, I confess my sin give you. You come forgive all my sin. ' ( Ps.		Finally I confessed my sin to you, " he wrote, " and you pardoned the error of my sins. "
E talk sey: ' The work make me learn how to use all my mind help people.		She says: " Missionary life taught me to be more self - sacrificing, loving, and patient.
E use milk, sugar and coffee take teach dem.		To do that, she gave the boys milk, sugar, and coffee.
E want enjoy to serve but e no know why e no dey happy.		He wanted to serve God with joy but wondered why he was not happy.
Every country get people wey dey work for government and this people get different different work wey dem dey do.		In the secular realm, some individuals serve in positions of authority.
For example, David talk for Bible sey " hate anybody wey like katakata. " And e still talk sey e no good make we waka with " people wey dey deceive other people. "		For example, the psalmist David states that " hates anyone who loves violence, " and David warns against associating " with deceitful men. "
For example, how we go take know whether our friendship with God strong?		For example, how can we analyze the strength of our own spirituality?
For example, one congregation get 134 publishers but they get only 50 house for their territory!		For example, one congregation has 134 publishers but only 50 private homes in its territory!
For many years, dem take care of Rose papa wey no well; dem no fit leave am because person need to dey with am every time.		Over the years, they have had to care for Rose 's father, who needed around - the - clock attention.
God give am name wey fit am, Israel ( wey mean ' Person Wey Fight With God ' ).		He received the fitting name Israel, ( meaning " Contender [ Perseverer ] With God " or " God Contends " ).
God tell Moses sey: ' Make Joshua oga, tell am wetin go help am and make am strong because, na im be the person wey go first cross come dey this people front, and na im go make dem get the land wey you go see. ' ( Deut.		Yet, told Moses to encourage him, saying: " Commission Joshua and encourage him and strengthen him, because he is the one who will cross over before this people and he is the one who will cause them to inherit the land that you will see. "
Help your pikin think about the better thing wey e go gain if e do wetin talk, and the things wey go happen if e no do am.		When children are helped to consider deeply the blessings of obedience and the consequences of disobedience, they are more likely to develop a personal conviction.
How Bible study fit help us learn how to dey control ourself?		How can Bible study help us to cultivate the godly quality of self - control?
How angels take help Joshua and Hezekiah?		What help did angels give to Joshua and Hezekiah?
How e be sey the things wey talk come dey ' fall like sey na dew '?		How did 's words " trickle as the dew "?
How the love wey dey marriage suppose strong reach?		How strong should love be in a marriage?
I just like am when I see am.		I liked Mairambubu straight away.
If e want continue to dey strong, e need to chop well.		If he wants to remain healthy, he has to prepare nutritious meals for himself.
If we dey think like Jesus, how e go take show for our life?		How will having the mind of Christ affect your daily life?
dey give us mind to preach. This na another way e take dey show us sey e good.		Another way you can taste 's goodness is by experiencing his support as you share your faith with others.
Jesus talk sey im disciple dem go preach reach last days and na ' after this one the end go come. '		Jesus said that this global work would continue right on through the last days, " and then the end [ would ] come. "
Knorr talk about one of the case wey we win for Supreme Court for U.S.		Knorr, when commenting on one victory in the U.S.
Like Abigail, when we see wetin fit cause trouble, e good make we do wetin we fit do so that things no go spoil.		In addition, when we see a bad situation developing, we do well to do what we can to defuse it.
Make we dey study Bible and dey waka with people wey love. This one go help us continue to be tight friend.		We do this by strengthening our spirituality through Bible study and close association with those who are determined to serve.
Many times, na so so cry I dey cry and I no dey like to talk to dem at all.		So I cry often and prefer not to talk to them.
Na dem go be ' the New Jerusalem ' wey be Jesus wife. ( Rev.		They will make up " the New Jerusalem, " the bride of Christ.
Na im be the lastborn among Jesse eight son.		He was the last of eight sons.
Na true sey we no fit comot all the things wey dey pain dem for mind. And we no go fit make dem stop to remember their person wey die. But we fit do something wey go make their mind come down.		True, we cannot eliminate all the grief or completely fill the void caused by the death of a loved one, but we can bring a measure of comfort and consolation by taking practical action to assist the bereaved.
Or na because we get different character? '		Or do we just have different personalities? '
Person fit contribute money, better earring, ring, necklace or other better better things wey e get.		Donations of cash, jewelry, or other valuable personal property.
See as dem get mind!		Bold words those!
So, e good make how we dey dress, show sey we join dey make am clean, whether we dey meeting or any other place.		That is so whether we are together at a meeting or in an informal setting.
So, to keep the one wey we get, we self must be better friend.		GOOD friends are precious, and a lasting friendship does not happen just by chance.
That time, we dey type address put for wetin dem dey call stencil ( one small iron card ). Na for people wey just start to get Awake! and Watchtower.		Back then, brothers and sisters typed address stencils ( small metal plates ) for new subscribers to The Watchtower and Awake!
The Sanhedrin get power to do many things, but dem know where their power reach.		The Jewish Sanhedrin thus exercised extensive jurisdiction.
The kind cloth wey we like fit different from wetin another person like, and na so our pocket still be.		Our individual tastes vary, as do our financial resources.
The people wey love God no get this kind bad character. Instead, the love wey dem get dey make dem get better character.		In contrast, people who love God produce a much different kind of fruitage.
The wey God take treat Israel people show sey e no dey ever leave ' people wey love am and wey dey do wetin e talk. ' ( Deut.		The record of God 's dealings with his people demonstrates that he gives his loyal love to " those who love him and keep his commandments. "
Then when evening reach, we go ring the bell wey dey the boat.		Then at dusk we rang the ship 's bell.
Think about Takuya, * wey dey try to stop to watch film wey dey show naked people and e still dey try to stop to dey rub im private part.		Consider the experience of Takuya, * who was trying to overcome the unclean habits of viewing pornography and practicing masturbation.
This arrangement dey help many brothers and sisters for South Africa to make new friends with different brothers and sisters. And dem ready to continue!		As a result of this ongoing arrangement, many brothers and sisters made new friends and are determined to continue to widen out in their associations.
This one make my mama remember wetin dem teach dem for church. Dem tell dem sey when Jesus die, e stay hell for three days before God bring am back to life.		Mother recalled the church creed, which in its original form stated that Jesus descended into hell and was raised on the third day.
This one na one way wey take dey use Bible help us when we dey problem.		This is another way that our loving Father, through his Word, offers support and comfort to those experiencing tribulation.
We dey add join the peace wey all of us get when we dey forgive each other. E still dey help us put mind for the better life wey God promise us.		By kindly and lovingly forgiving one another, we contribute to Christian unity and keep our eyes on the prize of life.
We dey carry dem go preaching and meeting.		We took our children in the preaching work and to the congregation meetings.
Wetin Satan fit use attack us, and wetin go help us?		How might Satan try to bully us, and how can we cope?
Wetin e mean for person to overdo something?		How would you define a presumptuous act?
Wetin make Abraham tell Sarah to talk sey dem be brother and sister?		Why did Abraham ask his wife to say that she was his sister?
Wetin many people think about the work wey dem dey do?		How do many people view their work?
Wetin the man come do?		What was the Ethiopian 's response?
When e don dey reach the time wey dem go scatter Jerusalem, na im Baruch come dey ' put mind for big big things ' - things wey no go last.		As Jerusalem was nearing its foretold destruction, Baruch began " seeking great things " for himself - pursuits that had no lasting value.
Which people go resurrect when Jesus don start to rule for heaven, and how e go be like?		What does the Bible indicate would happen regarding the resurrection during Christ 's presence?
Which things Christian no suppose put hand?		What are some dishonest ways that Christians avoid?
Why Daniel be ' special person ' for God eye, and wetin go help us be like Daniel?		Why did God consider Daniel to be a " very precious man, " and how can we be obedient like Daniel?
Why e good make we copy Gaius example today?		Why do we want to imitate Gaius ' example today?
Why you go advise person make e do this kind work?		Why do you recommend this type of Kingdom service to others?
You fit still dey fear to tell other people wetin you believe, even if you prepare well.		Even with preparation, however, you may be hesitant to speak up about your beliefs.
You go come see sey many things wey fit make you worry no go happen.		Thus, you will find that many situations that could otherwise cause anxiety do not arise.
other people wey serve well?		other faithful servants of?
No Fear, Get Strong Mind, and Do the Work, ' Sept.		How We Strip Off and Keep Off the Old Personality, Aug.
E still sey: " Make una continue to dey support each other and dey make each other strong. " - 1 Thess.		He also exhorted them to strengthen one another, saying: " Keep encouraging one another and building one another up. " - 1 Thess.
When we dey study our pikin or another Bible student, why e good make we remember how baptism serious reach?		Why should a Christian teacher have the importance of baptism clearly in mind when teaching his child or another Bible student?
One time wey Daniel dey pray, e carry body down and e tell God wetin dey im mind. The prayer dey Daniel 9: 3 - 19. Wetin Daniel talk for this prayer show sey e know well, and e know wetin don do for Israel people.		Daniel 's intimate knowledge of God, including God 's dealings with Israel, is beautifully reflected in the prophet 's heartfelt and contrite prayer recorded at Daniel 9: 3 - 19.
Jacob really get strong faith for wetin promise, and e show am for the way e take live im life.		He obviously put faith in 's promises to him and his forefathers and wanted to act in harmony with God 's will and purpose.
Job tell sey: " I don take my ear hear about you. "		My ears have heard about you, " he said.
Even though people know Philip as person wey dey preach well well, e still train the four girls wey im born to sabi how to preach well.		Although Philip was busy as an evangelizer, he no doubt helped his four daughters to become effective in sharing Scriptural truths with others.
And if they love God before, small - small the love go die. - Matt.		Eventually, their love of material things can choke any love they had for God. - Matt.
Aug.		No. 5 Who Is the Devil? No. 2
Why you no try do wetin go make you fit follow the example of the single sisters wey we talk about for this topic?		Are you able to adjust your circumstances and follow in the footsteps of the zealous sisters interviewed for this article?
How Jesus take help im disciples see sey people need to learn about God Kingdom?		How did Jesus help his disciples to see the importance of God 's Kingdom?
Wetin Bible talk for Isaiah 41: 10, 13 wey suppose make our mind come down?		What sure hope is held out at Isaiah 41: 10, 13?
Wetin person wey dey serve go get for mind before e end im marriage?		What factors should a Christian consider when contemplating divorce?
Wetin we learn from the way take help im people?		What do we learn from how resolved the problem?
Which example show sey the Bible Students use all their mind and power preach?		Give examples illustrating the zeal of the Bible Students.
Which people example we go talk about?		Which Bible characters will we consider?
Why e good make person wey want follow Jesus baptize?		Explain the significance of Christian baptism.
Wetin we go do for matter wey hard us?		How should weighty decisions be made?
How Satan fit fool us make we remove our helmet?		How could Satan induce us to remove our helmet?
[CONTENT_REMOVED]		[CONTENT_REMOVED]
You Fit Know Where to Do Reach Even When E Hard		You Can Remain Modest Under Test
Young People - " Dey Do Things Wey Go Save Una "		Young Ones - " Keep Working Out Your Own Salvation "
You Know?		Did You Know?
But wetin we go teach people?		But what will we teach to others?
That one no mean sey dem go write wetin the pikin go do and wetin e no go do for one long paper.		Does this mean that parents should make sure that a child has a long list of dos and don 'ts?
And dem no dey collect offering for their Kingdom Hall or convention.		No collections are taken at their Kingdom Halls or conventions.
After, dem come carry me go another congregation wey publishers no too many and dem need help. The congregation name na Buxton Congregation.		Later, I was invited to transfer to the Buxton Congregation, which had very few publishers and needed help.
After Moses don talk about the Ten Commandment and other law wey give dem, e come talk wetin we see for Deuteronomy 6: 4, 5.		After mentioning the Ten Commandments and other regulations that had given the nation, Moses made the powerful declaration found at Deuteronomy 6: 4, 5.
And im God go dey with am. ' ( 2 Chron. 36: 23 ) This one really make Israel people mind come down!		What a comforting effect this development must have had on the Israelites dwelling in Babylon!
And the iron get leather with plenty iron hook and buckle. Na this hook and buckle de tie the iron together.		These strips were bent to fit his torso and were fastened to straps of leather by means of metal hooks and buckles.
And true true, we see people wey be like sheep!		And we found sheeplike ones!
Another person wey show sey e get strong mind na Rahab.		Rahab is another example of courage.
Apostle Paul talk sey " things go hard well well " for last days.		The last days, " wrote the apostle Paul, would bring " critical times hard to deal with. "
Arthur and Nellie Claus quick come so that dem fit see better place sitdown.		Arthur and Nellie Claus arrived early to get good seats.
As the General talk am, ' hand touch ' our brothers at last.		The authorities made good on that threat.
As time dey go, people no come too dey speak the language wey dem use translate Bible, wey be Greek and Latin. Church leaders no gree make people use the language wey dem dey speak everyday take translate Bible.		In time, Bible languages fell into disuse by the masses, and the church opposed efforts to translate God 's Word into the common tongues.
As your friend open door make you enter, your mind just come down.		You start to run; you rush to a friend 's house nearby.
At last e talk sey: " Before, I think sey na two leg I take stand for side, but I no know sey I don fall reach ground!		He concludes: " I thought I had a solid relationship with when in reality I did not!
Because this world go soon end, make husband and wife dey first do wetin want. - Matt.		In view of the reduced time, however, they needed to give priority to spiritual matters. - Matt.
Before that time reach, make we continue to dey do Memorial. And make we value the one mind wey Memorial dey help us get.		Meanwhile, may we do our utmost to be in attendance, and may we treasure the pleasant unity experienced at the Memorial.
Bible talk sey: ' Real friend dey show love every time, And na brother wey dem born for time when problem dey. ' ( Prov.		A true friend shows love at all times, and is a brother who is born for times of distress.
Bible talk sey e put mind for ' the better things wey go happen for front. '		The Bible says that he looked at " the joy that was set before him. "
Brother Evangelos Scouffas talk sey: ' E just be like sey one strong power carry us get up, and we come dey cry as we stand. '		Evangelos Scouffas said, " It was as if a mighty power pulled us up from our seats, and we stood up and our eyes filled with tears. "
Brother Willi Diehl story dey November 1, 1991, Watchtower for the topic " Is My God, in Whom I Will Trust. "		See Willi Diehl 's life story, " Is My God, in Whom I Will Trust, " in the November 1, 1991, issue of The Watchtower.
But, make we no dey fear when we dey talk to dem, and make we dey sure of wetin we believe. Make we still make am dey part of wetin we dey talk about when we dey gist.		However, if we talk with ease and assurance about what we believe, making it a normal part of conversation, it 's more likely that they will respect us. "
But, what if law no dey to control the speed wey people dey drive or which side of the road dem go dey?		However, would we feel safe traveling on highways where there were no traffic laws, where everyone was free to decide how fast or on which side of the road to drive?
But Bible tell us sey, na better thing for person to always know where e suppose do reach.		As the Scriptures show, modesty is always the right course.
But Katharina no know all this things because e no dey the same place with Hans again.		Katharina had moved away and did not know all of this.
But even as dem shout reach, I still dey draw the horse tail. Na my back dem dey and I no hear dem.		My back was turned toward them, and I did not hear their screams.
But for Jesus time, many people come dey use am anyhow. The matter bad sotey, dem must swear for everything wey dem talk.		However, their use became so common in the everyday life of Jesus ' contemporaries that there was the tendency to reinforce practically any utterance by swearing to it.
But now, dem come see sey dem need to preach more more.		Yet, they now felt infused with a new sense of purpose.
But the question be sey, if na you e happen to wetin you go do?		The point is, how will you respond?
But when I start school, I come dey like the language wey people dey speak for the new country wey we pack go.		But after I started school, I began to prefer the local language.
Dem " understand everything " wey want make dem do. ( Prov.		In fact, they ' understood everything ' he required of them.
Dem no dey worry even if their family no get this kind thing to enjoy.		It is also important to respect local customs.
Dey do exercise.		Get regular exercise.
E be like sey na that time Timothy hear about the things wey Jesus teach. Timothy fit dey around 20 years that time.		Though at the time Timothy was likely a teenager, he must have applied himself well.
E be like sey the Romans dey allow dem handle thief matter and other matter wey concern the city for there.		Most civil and criminal cases were probably handled by such courts without interference from Roman rulers.
E come help me remember the better things wey I dey do.		Then he reminded me of the good I was accomplishing.
E don tey wey people really know wetin e mean to support as King.		Appreciation for 's sovereignty has distinguished true religion from false.
E get one sister wey be pioneer like me, and we dey preach together.		My pioneer partner and I were quite different.
E just be like that seed wey they plant for fine soil.		Just as the fine soil in Jesus ' illustration retained the seed, we accepted the message and held on to it.
E no dey change.		He does not change.
Even with that one, many place still dey wey dem never preach.		Yet, there is still a vast untouched territory.
For November 1879, wetin Zion 's Watch Tower talk clear. E sey any church wey dey support government for this world and e dey claim sey e still dey do the things wey Jesus teach, be like prostitute. E no be like the virgin wey Bible sey go marry Jesus.		As early as November of 1879, Zion 's Watch Tower straightforwardly set out their Scriptural position by stating: " Every church claiming to be a chaste virgin espoused to Christ, but in reality united to and supported by the world ( beast ) we must condemn as being in scripture language a harlot church, " a reference to Babylon the Great. - Read Revelation 17: 1, 2.
Forgive people from your mind.		Forgive freely.
Georg Kayser go fight war as soldier but e come back as servant.		Georg Kayser went to the battlefront as a soldier and returned home as a servant of the true God.
Goliath use only six inches ( 15 cm ) tall pass the man wey dem sey na im tall pass for the world today. David na real person.		The height given for Goliath is just six inches ( 15 cm ) taller than that of the tallest man documented in modern times.
How You Dey Choose Wetin You Go Do?		How Do You Make Personal Decisions?
How Zechariah vision take concern us today?		What do the dramatic visions of Zechariah mean for us today?
How e fit help you dey do wetin God like and dey put mind for wetin e promise?		And what does it have to do with your hope and your relationship with him?
How we fit take help our Bible student dem and other people to dey always come meeting?		How can we encourage our Bible students and others to be at our meetings regularly?
I dey happy well well now.		I now experience much joy.
I don enjoy the time wey I take preach to some of dem, and many of dem collect our book and magazine.		I have had interesting conversations with some of them, and many have taken books and magazines.
I no want hear anything about that your church again.		I don 't want to listen to anything else about your religion.
If na so e be for your area, why you no try another style?		If that is true in your territory, why not consider different ways to preach the good news?
If somebody open eye kill person wey no do anything, e go use im own life pay.		took seriously all cases of bloodshed in ancient Israel.
If you be one of dem, know sey we love you well well.		If you are one of those dear brothers, then surely you rejoice in your new privilege of service.
Im name na Robert. E no take the truth wey e learn from Bible serious.		ROBERT got baptized as a teenager, but he did not really take the truth seriously.
angel tell am to go save Israel people from Midian people hand. Gideon no waste time tell am sey na im small pass for im papa house and na im family small pass for Manasseh. ( Judg.		When 's angel first appeared to him, Gideon readily acknowledged his modest background and credentials.
Like Paul, we de tell people the good news because we really love them.		Like Paul, we preach to people out of heartfelt concern.
My mama do everything make I no de follow Witness people. But this time, I no gree make e stop me. I decide say na I go serve.		My mother tried hard to stop me from associating with the, but this time I was determined to make the truth my own.
Na im make to fit do this work well, we dey translate our book, our magazine and other things wey we dey give people for language wey pass 700. And people no dey pay to get our book dem.		Millions of books, magazines, tracts, and convention and Memorial invitations have been distributed free of charge. We have produced various publications in more than 700 languages.
No! let us know wetin dey im mind when e vex for Eliphaz, Bildad, and Zophar. E talk sey wetin dem talk na lie. But e happy with Job and even call am im servant.		made his feelings known when he reproved Eliphaz, Bildad, and Zophar for speaking falsehood but took delight in Job, referring to him as " my servant. "
No matter how things be, make we dey always put as the number one Person for our life. This one mean sey we go trust am, and ready to dey use all our heart do wetin e talk.		No matter what our circumstances may be, let us always keep at the center of our lives, trusting him fully and obeying him with a complete heart.
One man wey sabi this matter well well talk sey God " make everything clear, simple and easy.		Every thing was made as plain, as simple, and as easy as possible, " wrote one commentator.
Other better things happen because of our good character.		Our steadfastness also brought other fine results.
Person wey know where e suppose do reach go fit choose the correct thing, even if e no know or e no fit control wetin go happen tomorrow.		Modesty can also help us to make good decisions even when we cannot fully know or control how things will turn out.
Sakura like wetin e dey learn. And help am stop to dey live that kind yeye life. Wetin e do before no dey too worry am for mind again, and e no dey too shame again.		Sakura loved what she learned, and with 's help she was able to overcome deep feelings of guilt and shame and to put away sexual immorality.
See wetin Bible talk: ' We dey wait for new heaven and new earth as God promise us and na people wey dey do wetin God talk go dey there. '		The Bible tells us: " There are new heavens and a new earth that we are awaiting according to his promise, and in these righteousness is to dwell. "
The night before Jesus die, e talk about different - different gift. This gifts go help the apostles endure as them de preach.		During that last evening before his death, Jesus also mentioned to his apostles several gifts that would help them to endure in bearing fruit.
The people wey come the convention just dey wonder wetin e mean.		Those signs had the delegates bursting with curiosity.
They get power, but they no get power pass.		They are formidable but not unbeatable.
This husband and wife follow this advice. The husband change work many times to make sure sey dem continue to live simple life.		To keep their focus on this goal, John says that he changed jobs many times in order to maintain a simple lifestyle.
This one dey make our mind come down!		What a comforting thought that is!
This one give the woman chance to preach to im husband and other people.		Her faithful course later gave her an opportunity to witness to him, as well as to others.
This one go help the person know how to treat other people well.		In the Bible, modesty similarly refers to having a proper estimate of ourselves and an awareness of our limitations.
Use any chance wey you see take preach. Pray make help you know wetin you go talk.		Look for opportunities to witness, asking to help you say the right thing at the right time.
We still make hot tea for am.		Then we made tea and hot chocolate.
Wetin you don dey learn for this topic? You don learn sey make you make up your mind to use your life serve.		So far this article has encouraged you to make up your mind to focus your life on your desire to serve.
Wetin you fit do if your children start to speak another language?		What can you do if there is a language barrier in your family?
Which question go help us know the kind love wey we get for God?		What questions will help us to analyze our love of God?
Why we no suppose join any side for war or politics?		Why must we remain neutral?
You dey wear the kind cloth wey go make people respect?		Will your style of dress generate respect for the God you represent?
You fit dey feel like person wey dey prison, wey no fit comot. ( Prov.		That can be like an anchor attached to a boat, not allowing the boat to move forward.
At once angel hit am, because e collect the praise wey be God own, and worm come chop am and e die. '		Instantly the angel of struck him, because he did not give the glory to God, and he was eaten up with worms and died.
God carry Enoch comot make e no die the way person dey die. '		Enoch was transferred so as not to see death.
Person wey dey bear something well well and wey gentle reach inside fit change the mind of person wey dey rule, and person wey dey sofri talk fit break something wey strong like bone. ' - Prov.		By long forbearing and calmness of spirit a. ruler is persuaded, and soft speech breaks down the most bonelike resistance. " - Prov.
Wicked people, ( 2 ) bad religion, bad government and bad business, ( 3 ) bad things wey people dey do, and ( 4 ) bad condition.		We will consider four broad categories: wicked people, corrupt organizations, wrong activities, and distressful conditions.
David still show sey e get strong mind, when e fight Goliath.		Yes, with God 's help and a smooth stone, David defeated Goliath. - 1 Sam.
E good make we try see how we fit preach pass as we dey preach now. If we fit, make we do auxiliary or regular pioneer.		As our circumstances allow, we look for ways to expand our ministry, perhaps by serving as an auxiliary or a regular pioneer.
Na im make e still answer im Hebrew name even after 70 years for Babylon. - Dan.		Thus, some 70 years after his arrival in Babylon, he was still known by his Hebrew name. - Dan.
The different different way wey take dey favor us, dey make us get many blessing.		The various expressions of 's kindness result in our receiving many blessings.
If you dey pity people and you dey help dem, e dey show sey you dey allow God spirit direct you.		All such feelings and actions are marks of a spiritual person.
Fear no go make the people wey dey rule the city do anything to the brothers for the new congregation.		Those city magistrates would think twice before doing anything against the newly formed Christian congregation in their city.
Which gift John 15: 11 talk about?		What gift is mentioned at John 15: 11?
But the only thing wey dey im mind na how that sickness go take comot from im body.		But she was desperate.
Dorcas ' dey always do good and e like to help people wey no get. '		Dorcas " abounded in good deeds and gifts of mercy. "
But this one mean sey hope no dey for this kind people? No!		But does that mean that such ones are beyond help?
Which work Jesus give im brothers wey God choose with holy spirit?		What responsibility did Christ give to his anointed brothers?
And after, I go London because I want start from square one. For London, my congregation get plenty Bethelites.		In London, my congregation included many members of the London Bethel family.
And e come tell Peter sey: ' From now, na people you go dey catch alive. '		On that occasion, he miraculously gave Peter a huge catch of fish and told him: " From now on you will be catching men alive. "
And single sisters dey among dem.		AMONG the zealous serving in lands where there is a greater need for more Kingdom preachers are numerous single sisters.
Another thing be sey, as we dey do like Jesus, we go make people like wetin we dey preach. This one fit help some of dem change.		What is more, as we display the Christlike personality, we adorn our message, which may affect the attitude of some householders.
As e be sey this wicked world never end, sin go still dey our body and we go still dey do wetin other people no like.		As long as this system of things lasts, humans will be imperfect and will continue to offend others.
But " person wey God spirit dey direct dey understand everything. " And this kind person " dey think like Jesus. "		On the other hand, " the spiritual man " is someone who " examines all things " and who has " the mind of Christ. "
But disciples of Jesus go need to remove that kind thing from their heart.		Jesus ' disciples would need to overcome those feelings.
But the people wey dem dey call scribe and Pharisee turn God Law upside down, and dem dey make people think sey e no make sense.		How pained Jesus must have been, then, when he saw the scribes and Pharisees misrepresent his Father 's Law!
Dem dey swear anyhow to make people believe sey wetin dem talk na true. E reach two times wey Jesus condemn this bad thing.		This frivolous practice was intended to add credence to one 's statements; yet, Jesus twice denounced it.
Dem just want do wetin go mek happy. Na that one better pass anything wey dem fit give.		They wanted to have 's approval, and that was worth any sacrifice.
Dey check how you take dey live your life and wetin you dey teach. '		Pay constant attention to yourself and to your teaching. "
E burn the temple and the high building dem, e break the fence wey dey Jerusalem reach ground, and e destroy all their better things. - 2 Chron.		He burned down the house of the true God, tore down the wall of Jerusalem, burned all its fortified towers with fire, and destroyed everything of value. " - 2 Chron.
E come " produce fruit 100 times more. "		Then, it " produced 100 times more fruit. "
E come follow the advice wey Bible give about marriage. And e start to serve, wey be God of peace.		In time, he quit his spiritistic practices, spent months straightening out his unscriptural marital situation, and became a worshipper of, the God of peace.
E come make one rich man grave for imself. And e come dey use chariot wey fine well well. - Isa.		He even had an opulent tomb made for himself, and he rode in " glorious chariots "! - Isa.
E dey sweet me to follow dem preach and I learn many things from dem!		How pleasurable and upbuilding that was! Bud Miller and his wife, Joan, next served us in the traveling work.
E dey talk about people wey dey do anything wey their mind and body tell dem.		He was referring to people who are ruled by or focused on their desires and leanings as imperfect humans.
E don near, and e dey come with full speed! " ( Zeph.		It is near and it is approaching very quickly! "
E fit be sey im mind tell am sey e go better if e use Ben - hadad army take fight Baasha, instead of am to trust.		Could he have thought that diplomacy or militaristic maneuvering would deliver a more favorable outcome than would turning to God for help?
E go help you see the good character wey the person get wey make draw am come im side.		It can bring to the surface lovable aspects of our guest 's personality, aspects that saw when he drew that one to the truth.
E no want make you believe something because other people believe am.		He does not want you to believe just because others do.
E send ' im only special Son ' wey big pass all the gift wey e don give, make e come die for us.		He sent his greatest gift of all, " his only - begotten Son, " to earth to die in our behalf.
E sey: ' The person wey dey do good come from God. '		Whatever the case, John reassured Gaius by saying: " The one who does good originates with God. "
E still surprise am sey na the money wey people dey use their mind contribute we take dey do our work, and we no dey do any program to get money.		He said that it should not be possible to do what we do.
Even though sey Jehoshaphat come dey fear, e still pray to make e help am.		Jehoshaphat did become afraid! Yet, " he resolved to search for. "
For example, e fit be sey you never reach 13 years when you baptize.		Why is it important to remember that?
For example, e get any bad thing wey you dey try to stop but e dey hard you to stop?		For example, are you struggling with a weakness that you would like to overcome but you keep making the same mistake?
For example, e get one sister wey im name na Renee. The sister get stroke and e dey always feel serious pain; e still get cancer.		For example, a Witness named Renee suffered a stroke and struggled with chronic pain and cancer.
For example, when e think sey im brother want come kill am, e tell sey: " I dey pray to you, save me.		For example, when he felt threatened by Esau, Jacob said to God: " Save me, I pray you.
Give example of the kind partial wey dey happen for this world today?		Relate an example of injustice in today 's world.
God Kingdom be like that fine stone.		The truth of God 's Kingdom is like that priceless pearl.
How our conscience fit be like steering?		How can our conscience be like a compass?
How the way Boaz treat Ruth show sey e dey look stranger the way dey look dem?		How did Boaz reflect 's view of strangers in his dealings with Ruth the Moabitess?
How we go take do am?		How can we do this?
How we go take show sey we hold tight if we want choose wetin we go do?		How do we show our loyalty to when we are making major decisions?
How we go take show sey we like name well well?		How can we show that we love 's name?
How you go take show sey you dey use all your mind support organization?		How can you show that you fully support 's organization?
How you take correct your pikin today go affect how dem go take talk to you tomorrow		How you discipline your children today will affect communication with them later
I Try Well Well to Follow Good Example ( T.		Would Someone Oversow a Field With Weeds?
I read the book finish that night.		I read it that same night.
If we dey do like am, we dey show sey we like how e take dey rule and we dey support am. - Read Ephesians 5: 1, 2.		When we handle matters as would, we show that we love and uphold his way of ruling. - Read Ephesians 5: 1, 2.
If we no want dey behave like people for this world, we need to ' train our sense well ' to know wetin good and wetin bad. This one go still help us get the sense to choose well. - Heb.		To remain blameless in today 's complex and wicked world, we must train our " powers of discernment " so that we can distinguish not just right from wrong but also wise from unwise. - Heb.
If you feel sey e go hard you to explain how life take start, you fit use the kind common sense wey Paul use.		If you feel unprepared to discuss evolution or creation, you can try using the basic reasoning that Paul used.
help am born another five children. Later, Samuel come be prophet and e dey among the people wey write Bible. - 1 Sam.		She was privileged to have five more children, and Samuel became a prophet and a Bible writer. - 1 Sam.
Jesus still continue to do the good work wey e dey do, even though some of im disciple do wetin e no like.		Jesus continued his wonderful work despite the disappointment that some of his followers caused him.
Joseph dey 17 years when im brothers kidnap am, come sell am as slave.		When Joseph was in his late teens, his brothers kidnapped him and sold him as a slave.
Look the police for eye.		Look the KGB agent right in the eye.
Make the way you dey sing, loud reach how you dey talk. E fit even loud pass am.		You should sing as loud as you speak or even louder than that.
Make we come talk about Jehoshaphat wey be Asa pikin.		What about Asa 's son Jehoshaphat?
Make we see how we go take do am.		Let us consider how we can do so.
Many people dey suffer, but some dey enjoy.		TODAY 'S economic system is harsh and unfair.
Many times, Bible dey use different different part for our body take dey teach us about different different character or things.		The Bible often uses parts of the human body to illustrate different characteristics or actions.
Many times, e fit be sey na the man body dey first move am before the woman.		The man can often respond more quickly than the woman, but emotionally the time should be right for both mates.
Na so Awake! still be.		Similarly, Awake!
Na the ' things wey the flesh want ' dem dey like to do?		Could it be that their lives were dominated by or centered on " things of the flesh "?
Na the same thing Isaac do for Jacob and the twelve tribe of Israel come out from Jacob pikin dem.		Similar concern for true worship guided Isaac 's son Jacob, whose sons became the forefathers of the 12 tribes of Israel.
Na true sey Babylon people no dey worship but e use dem scatter Jerusalem. ( Jer.		This was because used them to punish his apostate people.
Na true sey I no start am like sey I want preach to dem, but e dey hungry some of dem to know how I take dey teach people Bible.		Although the immediate point is not in itself about the Bible, often others are curious about what I do when teaching the Bible.
Paul tell brothers and sisters for im time sey make dem become " mature " Christian.		Paul urged first - century Christians to " press on to maturity. "
Since when choose the slave wey dem fit trust for 1919, the slave don dey teach God people wetin dem suppose know ( Check paragraph 10, 11 )		Since its appointment in 1919, the faithful slave has prepared spiritual food for God 's people ( See paragraphs 10, 11 )
That time, the congregation for our area just be like where old people dey gather.		At the time, the local congregation seemed to me like an old - ladies ' club.
That time wey the brothers and sisters suffer well well, some of dem stop to preach because dem no know wetin dem go do and their mind no come dey the preaching work again.		Discouraged and bewildered during those difficult years, some Bible Students had left off the witness work.
The more we think how we fit use the things for Bible wey they fit guide us, the more our conscience go de direct us for the right way ( Check paragraph 16 )		As we reason on godly principles, our conscience becomes a more reliable guide ( See paragraph 16 )
The way organization dey change nowadays, don show sey all of us suppose ready to work for and do things for our brothers anywhere.		Recent organizational changes have required that we remain flexible in our service to God and to our brothers.
Thierry talk sey: " When the drama finish, we come dey clap. I come dress near my wife, and I ask am sey, ' Where we dey go? '		Says Thierry: " At the conclusion of that drama, while we were applauding, I leaned over to my wife and asked, ' Where are we going? '
Think about how Nehemiah feel when e reach Jerusalem.		Imagine how Nehemiah must have felt when he went to Jerusalem.
Timothy work with apostle Paul for many years, even though sey Paul senior am.		Timothy, a younger man, worked alongside the apostle Paul for many years.
Today, the number of pioneers wey dey Britain dey plenty again as the war of Armageddon dey come for front.		Today, Britain 's pioneer ranks are increasing again, as God 's war of Armageddon approaches.
We go answer this question for the next topic.		The answer to that question will be found in the following article.
We learn for Bible sey, dey treat us well because e love us.		We learn from our study of the Bible that exercises authority in a loving manner.
Wetin David want do, but wetin get for mind?		What did King David want to do, and how did respond?
Wetin be some of the things wey Bible sey make we do?		What are some directives, or instructions, provided in the Bible for our benefit?
Wetin go help us stop to dey fear when we dey sing to?		How can we overcome the fear of using our voice to sing praises to?
Wetin make us believe sey the Bible Students use all their mind and power preach for World War I?		What testimony is there that the brothers were very zealous during World War I?
Wetin the Greek word, to ' put mind for ' something wey dey Romans 8: 5, 6 mean?		At Romans 8: 5, 6, the expression " set their minds on " implies what?
When dem understand the answer, e go make dem see the kind love and sense wey get as e send Jesus come die for us.		Such ones may be impressed when they begin to understand to a fuller degree how 's love and wisdom are expressed by the ransom provision.
When them de share food for poor widows, they no give the widows wey their language na Greek.		When distributing food to needy widows, Greek - speaking widows were overlooked.
Whether wetin we think correct or e no correct, make we pray to, make we trust am and hold am tight.		This could happen because of our imperfect view of matters or because we do not have all the facts.
Which example we fit use take explain wetin cause Euodia and Syntyche quarrel, and wetin we fit do make that kind thing no happen?		How might the differences between Euodia and Syntyche have arisen, and how can such problems be avoided?
Who we fit help?		To whom?
Why e dey important today make we always dey ready?		Why is keeping on the watch so important today?
Why we suppose train people wey go dey handle things for congregation?		Why must we train others to take up theocratic assignments?
You go see sey Paul first talk about better character wey person suppose get, like to dey carry body down, dey gentle, no dey hurry and to get love.		Note that Paul first mentioned such qualities as humility, mildness, patience, and love.
Samuel, wey be Joshua and Esther papa, talk sey: ' Me and my wife look our children to know which language go help dem near more more. We pray to make e give us sense.		Joshua and Esther 's father, Samuel, relates: " My wife and I observed our children to see in which language they thrived spiritually, and we prayed for wisdom.
Later, na the children go choose if dem go like to serve. - Deut.		Of course, her children must eventually make their own decision regarding worship. - Deut.
Upon all this one, Jesus still praise im apostles sey dem no run leave am when e get problem.		Yet, Jesus commended his faithful apostles for sticking with him in his trials.
Wetin suppose be number one for our life no matter how things be for us?		Whatever our circumstances, what should be our priority?
Ps. 1: 2, 3 ) For July 1879, dem print the first Watchtower.		The very first issue of this magazine, published in July 1879, stated: " Truth, like a modest little flower in the wilderness of life, is surrounded and almost choked by the luxuriant growth of the weeds of error.
Job 1: 8 ) Even though sey wetin we take dey support God kingdom small because things hard, and Jesus value am.		and Jesus greatly value what all of us do to support Kingdom interests, even if our efforts and contributions are limited because of our circumstances.
Make we do like apostle Paul.		The apostle Paul was a fine example.
Make Dem Praise Because You Use Your Mind Support Im Work!		May Your Volunteer Spirit Bring Praise to!
Even as more people for this world no dey as one, how we go fit continue to dey as one?		While the world becomes more divided, how can Christians safeguard their unity?
go do wetin dey this verse when e don destroy Satan and people wey support am.		This petition will be answered when brings an end to Satan 's wicked world!
Wetin Jesus name mean na, " Dey Save. " go use Jesus sacrifice take save us so that im name go dey holy.		Jesus ' own name means " Is Salvation, " and our salvation by means of the ransom brings honor and glory to 's name.
Abeg go www.jw.org and fill form sey you want come.		Please go to www.jw.org to make a reservation for your visit.
After Riana finish school, e do wetin e promise.		After graduating, Riana kept his promise.
After one year, dem come tell us sey make we go Kampala for Uganda. Na we come be the first missionary for there.		The following year, we were asked to go to Kampala, Uganda, as the first missionaries in that country.
And e dey make me happy to see how dey use im holy spirit change their life. " - 1 Thess.		I love teaching people, as I can see that holy spirit is changing them. " - 1 Thess.
And make nobody deceive una with wetin no get head. Na people dey teach this things and na things wey come from the world. No be Jesus Christ own. '		Look out that no one takes you captive by means of the philosophy and empty deception according to human tradition, according to the elementary things of the world and not according to Christ. "
And na the first time wey dem translate the whole Hebrew part for Bible go Greek be that.		The Septuagint is the first known written translation of the entire Hebrew Scriptures.
As I dey think am, e just enter my mind sey don really dey patient with me. E don show me many times how e love me reach.		All of a sudden, it dawned on me that had been patient with me for so long, showing me that he loved me in so many ways.
As the condition of this world de bad more - more, all of us need to always dey ready.		As these critical times worsen, all of us need to keep on the watch.
Because I be person wey dey work for inside ship, I fit stay for Puerto Rico for only one month.		As a ship 's crewman, I had a permit to stay in Puerto Rico only one month.
Because de give them power.		Because they " go on acquiring power in the Lord. "
Brother Jensen tell me sey na this kind work go good for me.		Brother Jensen said that he thought the physical work would do me good.
But after, e go take advice from e friends, wey they be age mate.		However, then Rehoboam sought advice from younger men, those of his own age.
But e talk say make we no too drink, and make we no drink sotey we begin see things double - double. ( Prov. 20: 1; 1 Tim.		It does, however, warn against the excessive use of alcohol, as well as drunkenness.
But how you go take dey sure sey na love make you invite am?		How can you make sure that love is your honest motive?
But if we no take time, we fit start to dey copy the way this kind people dey think, the way dem dey talk, and the things wey dem dey do. ( Prov.		In this article, we will consider how the qualities that characterize people of the last days stand in contrast with the qualities of God 's people.
But many years before 1914, correct Christian don already start to comot from fake religion hand. - w16.11, pp.		But in the decades leading up to 1914, anointed ones began to break free. - w16.11, pp.
But na only get the right to talk sey something good or e bad. Na wetin " the tree of knowledge of good and bad " go don make Adam and Eve understand.		However, only has the right to decide in the absolute sense what is good and what is bad, as symbolized by " the tree of the knowledge of good and bad " in the garden of Eden.
But once e comot, the respect fit disappear.		Yet, would she be inclined to respect him when he is not there?
But we enjoy am as this brothers and sisters stay with us.		But having students stay with us was truly a joyous experience.
But when you put mind for wetin you want use your life do for, wetin you choose go really make you happy even when you don big.		But youths who today keep focused on theocratic goals will well into adulthood be deeply satisfied with the choices they made.
Correction na good thing.		Perhaps you immediately think of punishment, but much more is involved.
Dem come be friend again.		Their friendship was restored.
Dem dey always go the temple go preach.		They taught regularly at the temple.
Dem draw Jesus picture for the center.		In the center was a painting of Jesus.
Dem get the mind sey dem fit do anything wey dem want.		They may not have examined the question of God 's existence carefully, but they are drawn to the idea of being free to do as they please.
Dem release me for 1966. Me and my family come pack go one place wey dem dey call Armavir. The place near Black Sea.		In 1966, I was freed from the labor camp and the four of us moved to the city of Armavir, near the Black Sea.
Dem tie my two hand for back, dem come dey use all their power flog under my leg with rope.		Tying my hands behind my back, soldiers savagely beat the soles of my feet with ropes.
E dey do wetin e fit do to get more. This kind person dey cause serious problem for imself. - 1 Tim.		Such people will always want more money, and striving to amass it, they will bring on themselves " many pains. " - 1 Tim.
E fit no be like that. Proverbs 24: 16 talk sey: " Good person fit fall seven times, but e go get up again. "		The righteous one may fall seven times, and he will get up again, " says Proverbs 24: 16.
E good make we dey prepare all the topic well before Watchtower Study so that we go understand the topic.		To get the sense of the subject that is considered, we need to prepare well for each Watchtower Study.
E never tey wey many Witness people run comot from their place because of fight fight for eastern Ukraine. Among the people wey run comot because dem dey suffer dem, na men, women, and children.		Recently, thousands of 's - men, women, and children - had to flee conflict and persecution in eastern Ukraine.
E sey: " I dey try to free myself when I dey talk to dem.		I just try to be casual, " she says.
E talk about great tribulation wey go soon start, sey: " Then the Son of man sign go show for heaven, and e go pain people for everywhere for this earth. Dem go see Son of man dey come ontop the cloud wey dey heaven. E go come with power and better glory.		Regarding the great tribulation just ahead of us, he said: " The sign of the Son of man will appear in heaven, and all the tribes of the earth will beat themselves in grief, and they will see the Son of man coming on the clouds of heaven with power and great glory.
E write sey: ' You [ ] go protect people wey trust you well well; you go continue to give dem peace, because na you dem trust. ' - Isa. 26: 3; read Romans 5: 1.		Isaiah recorded words that applied in his day but have an even greater fulfillment now: " You [ ] will safeguard those who fully lean on you; you will give them continuous peace, because it is in you that they trust. " - Isa. 26: 3; read Romans 5: 1.
Even though sey Nehemiah get money, na governor, and many people dey work with am, e no put mind for wetin e fit do. E continue to waka with God.		Yet, despite his prominent position, personal wealth, and considerable authority, Nehemiah never relied on his own experience or abilities.
Even though sey una sin red like scarlet, I go make am white like snow. ' The verse really touch me!		Though the sins of you people should prove to be as scarlet, they will be made white just like snow. '
For early morning, I go work for kitchen.		In the early morning, I helped in the kitchen.
For example, dem know sey for dem to continue to live, dem need to breath, chop, sleep, and do other things.		For example, our first parents knew that to keep on living, they had to breathe, eat, sleep, and so on.
For some of dem, na their papa and mama dey tell dem make dem wait.		In some cases, parents have encouraged them to delay baptism.
For this topic, we go talk more about this better character.		This article will focus on the quality of compassion, a sympathetic awareness of another 's suffering or adversity coupled with a desire to lessen it.
Governing Body agree with wetin apostle Paul talk, when e sey: ' No be human being sense make us know this things, but na the spirit still dey teach us this things wey we talk. ' ( 1 Cor.		The Governing Body echoes the apostle Paul, who wrote: " These things we also speak, not with words taught by human wisdom, but with those taught by the spirit. "
How God holy spirit fit help you handle or comot hand from things wey fit disturb your mind?		How can the fruitage of God 's holy spirit help you to deal with or avoid stressful situations?
How Jesus take show sey song na part of how we take dey worship?		How did Jesus emphasize the need for singing in Christian worship?
How person wey dey carry body down dey behave, and how e take be almost the same thing with person wey know where e suppose do reach?		What is humility, and how is modesty related to it?
I dey like to read Bible well well, especially Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John.		I enjoyed reading the Bible, especially the four Gospels.
If we de use laws and things wey they fit guide us for Bible, we go " ready and get everything wey [ we ] need for all kind of good work. "		Do we have everything we need to make wise decisions that please?
If we dey control ourself, e go help us fit do wetin we plan to do for.		Self - discipline helps us to reach spiritual goals.
If we love people, how that one fit make dem come dey serve?		How may the love we show for others help them to draw close to?
If you tell small pikin better word, e go make am know sey you love am and e go sweet am well well. "		With encouragement, a child feels worthwhile and appreciated.
Instead, put mind for how you go fit help dem. "		He put spiritual interests first.
Judah na the fourth son wey Leah born for Jacob. - Gen.		It was through Judah, Jacob 's fourth son by Leah. - Gen.
Make e no think sey the one style wey e dey use go dey work every time.		He could not take for granted that people would respond to his usual approach.
Many of our brothers don pull this kind character comot for body, and dem don wear the new character. - Read Psalm 37: 8 - 11.		Many had to strip off these harmful ways before being able to clothe themselves with the new personality. - Read Psalm 37: 8 - 11.
Many times, dem dey dash us fresh fish, avocado, and groundnut.		Often, they gave us fresh fish, avocados, and peanuts.
Na Kyrgyzstan people we be, and na Kyrgyz language we dey speak.		Our family belong to the Kyrgyz people, and we speak the Kyrgyz language.
Na around 2,000 new congregation dey come out every year.		Some 2,000 congregations are formed each year.
Na for Brooklyn dem dey print our book for different different language.		Thus I learned about languages in which our magazines were printed in Brooklyn and sent to other parts of the world.
Na this one help me put mind for wetin better pass. "		Would he recommend this type of service?
Na true because Jesus talk about David, and people wey dem dey call Archaeologists see one olden days thing wey talk about David family.		David was a real person, as confirmed by an ancient inscription that mentions the house of David and by what Jesus said.
Na true sey, sometimes dem fit make each other vex.		Yes, both mates will make mistakes.
Na true sey this thing wey tell dem dey the Law wey e give dem. And for Pentecost 33 C.E, the Law of agreement come change with another one.		True, that arrangement was instituted under the Law covenant, which was replaced at Pentecost 33 C.E.
Na wetin God promise dem be that, and dem dey put mind for the promise. This one dey make dem happy! - 2 Pet.		They look forward to gaining the prize of everlasting life on earth - and what a happy prospect that is! - 2 Pet.
No be only that one, when e dey Egypt, im oga wife come lie for im head. E lie sey Joseph try to rape am.		Then, he was falsely accused of trying to rape his master 's wife and ended up in irons in prison.
No be only that one happen. Because of wetin e do, we still dey suffer till today.		We are still suffering the consequences of Adam 's terrible decision.
One brother wey don marry travel from Spain go Turkey. Im name na Federico, and e dey around 40 years. E talk sey: " I dey free, because I no get many property.		Not having many material possessions to be attached to helps me to feel free, and it allows me to concentrate on the most important things, " says Federico, a married brother in his early 40 ' s who moved from Spain.
Our problem na something wey other people don first face or dey face.		Our trials, then, are common to human experience.
Paul know sey e get where im power reach. E get things wey e no fit do if God no help am.		Paul realized that there was only so much he could do without help from a higher source.
Person wey want baptize need to know everything for Bible?		Does someone who wants to get baptized need to have an exhaustive knowledge of the Bible?
Pray make help you. No fear, trust, and do wetin good for im eye.		Courageously rely on, remaining firm for what you know is right and wise.
Service Committee go dey for congregation and one person wey dem go choose, go dey tell congregation how dem go do the work.		A Service Committee should be formed in the congregation and a director appointed to convey instructions.
So, wetin papa and mama suppose get for mind as dem dey teach their children from small pikin? Na to help their children baptize as Jesus disciple.		Thus, the goal of all Christian parents should be to teach their children from infancy with the intention of helping them become baptized disciples of Christ.
So e no go good for us to think sey our brothers and sisters no suppose make mistake.		Imperfect people are prone to make mistakes.
So the three of us come look am sey e no bad to take care of sheep as dem dey fight war.		So as the civil war raged around us, the three of us felt that our consciences would allow us to take care of the sheep.
Some people fit talk sey, " You no need any organization to direct you.		You don 't need an organization to direct you, " some may say.
The Theological Dictionary of the New Testament, talk sey: ' Wetin dem write for one book wey dem dey call Talmud show sey Jew people dey swear about everything. Dem want make people believe sey dem dey talk true. ' And this Talmud still talk the kind promise wey dem go keep, and the one wey dem fit no keep.		According to the Theological Dictionary of the New Testament, that " the inclination of the Jewish people to confirm all possible statements by an oath " was very strong may be discerned from passages of the Talmud, which painstakingly specifies which oaths were to be considered binding and which were not.
The second topic talk about wetin Bible sey make husband and wife dey do for their marriage.		The second article considers what the Scriptures say about the roles of husbands and wives.
The truth be sey, the police dem dey carry am go where dem go kill am for the bad thing wey e do.		However, the guards are leading him to a place of execution.
The verse use ' the woman ' and ' im pikin ' take show how go take remove all the suffer wey dey this world.		That one verse, using figurative language, sets out how will solve all the suffering that humans have experienced since Eden.
Their example go teach us two character wey fit help us copy how take dey judge matter.		In considering these Bible examples, we will learn that humility is essential if we are to demonstrate that we share 's sense of justice.
Them de wait for the time wey God go remove suffer and other problem wey we de face. "		They look to God to solve injustice and the other problems we face. "
This na serious matter.		That is a serious commitment.
This one come make my mama want learn the truth.		This was the beginning of my mother 's interest in the truth.
This one go help us make we no ' come dey vex for. ' - Read Proverbs 19: 3.		In either case, whether our understanding of matters is accurate or mistaken, prayerful reliance on, combined with loyalty, will prevent us from ever becoming " enraged against. " - Read Proverbs 19: 3.
This one mean sey, you go put mind for wetin you plan to use your life do for.		This means centering your life on spiritual goals.
This one still give am chance to help the congregation for Philippi.		Luke could thus give extra help to the new Christians in that city.
This sister get one bad sickness wey dem dey call spina bifida. E talk sey.		Reduced mobility does not necessarily mean a reduced ministry, " she says.
We still de pray make God use angels direct us make we meet people wey they want know the truth. ( Matt. 10: 11 - 13; Rev.		We also pray to God that angels may direct us to find honesthearted ones.
We still suppose get better mind and still dey happy even if the problem pass us.		It involves the way we think and feel about our trials.
Wetin King Hezekiah do?		What did King Hezekiah do when faced with this imminent threat?
Wetin Paul dey talk be sey, ' the peace wey God dey give ' make sense pass wetin we think.		Paul was, in effect, saying that " the peace of God " is more wonderful than can be imagined.
Wetin be some of dem?		What do such precious truths include?
Wetin be some of the wahala wey Noah face when e dey build the ark?		When building the ark, what challenges did Noah face?
Wetin go happen if somebody kill another person by mistake?		How, though, did the Israelites handle cases of accidental bloodshed?
Wetin happen to Joshua no be new thing.		Joshua 's experience is not uncommon.
Wetin make dem get faith and continue to dey obey?		What enabled them to remain faithful and obedient?
Wetin we go do if this kind thing happen?		This can test our love for and for his people.
When Martha complain sey Mary no dey help am prepare food, Jesus come tell Martha sey: ' The thing wey Mary choose na im good pass, and nobody go fit collect am from am. '		When Martha complained that Mary was not helping, Jesus told Martha: " Mary chose the good portion, and it will not be taken away from her. "
Which example for Bible fit help us know wetin we go do if person talk or do wetin pain us?		What Bible examples can help us understand how we should react when the words or deeds of others hurt us?
Why e dey hard us sometimes to show sey we dey pity people?		Why can it sometimes be a challenge to show compassion?
Why we dey sure sey go do wetin e get for mind for us?		Why can we be confident that will fulfill his purpose for mankind?
You ready to do this work even if e mean sey you go use your free time do am?		Are you willing to accept this challenge, even giving up some of what is commonly viewed as free time?
You think sey get you for mind?		Do you sense 's personal interest in you?
True - true, na because of the love wey God get for us, na e make God send Jesus come die for us.		Yes, God 's love moved him to action.
Like Brother Don, make we no dey put eye for only how person be for outside.		We too can look beyond outward appearances, express genuine love, and be patient with people of all sorts.
For example, show sey e dey patient when e use im angel answer Abraham and Lot question.		Consider how he responded through his angelic representatives when Abraham and Lot questioned him.
Wetin Satan tell for Job 1: 9 - 11, concern all of us.		Third, each one of us is personally involved in the issue of integrity.
Sept.		Scrolls in Bible Times, No.
People wey dey do this things for people to read or watch, dey make dem feel sey na normal thing to put hand for sex matter wey God no like.		Industry leaders promote their ideas on morals by presenting sexual immorality as normal behavior, free of painful consequences.
So, e good make we follow wetin dey Bible and pray so that go help us.		Thus, it is vital to draw on the Bible as the best source of advice and to seek 's guidance in prayer.
Apostle Paul tell Timothy make e follow am go dey preach because ' brothers dey talk well about Timothy. ' - Acts 16: 1 - 5.		Read Psalm 110: 3; Acts 6: 1 - 3 ) The apostle Paul invited Timothy into missionary service because " he was well - reported - on by the brothers. " - Acts 16: 1 - 5.
After Jesus go heaven, wetin the apostles do wey support?		After Jesus ' ascension to heaven, what important decision did the faithful apostles make?
Wetin dey Romans 15: 1, 2 wey fit help you know wetin good for your pikin?		What principle found at Romans 15: 1, 2 can help you to determine what will be in the best interests of your children?
Wetin help some people get chance to understand Bible well?		What conditions contributed to a greater understanding of Bible truth in the late 1800 ' s?
How Bible take help am so that this thing no go worry am for mind again?		What Scriptural thought helped this sister to maintain her peace?
How we fit show dem love?		emotionally?
Wetin Lot story teach us?		What does the account about Lot and his daughters teach us?
Wetin make Moses talk am?		Why did Moses speak those words?
Wetin papa and mama no suppose get for mind about their children?		What should parents not expect of their children?
Which question dem we go talk about?		What questions need to be answered?
Which question we go answer for this topic?		What questions will we answer in this study?
Ready to Talk About the Good News for Front of Government		Defending the Good News Before High Officials
Why e good make young people baptize?		How does baptism relate to one 's future life prospects?
As people, e good make we continue to love God, like wetin we dey learn from Bible, and love each other.		As Christians, we must therefore work hard to grow in our love for God, for Bible truth, and for one another.
For example, if one brother or sister dey friend person wey no be witness and elders don warn am but e no hear, elders fit use talk warn the congregation about the person bad character wey dey spoil the congregation name.		Today, elders may give a warning talk about someone 's persisting in a course that reflects badly on the congregation, such as dating an unbeliever.
Why and how dey give this ' free gift '?		Why and how does bestow this " free gift "?
Dey Show Real Love		Love. in Deed and Truth "
APOSTLE PAUL write about the nine character wey God holy spirit dey make us get. Na use im holy spirit direct Paul to write am.		THE apostle Paul wrote under inspiration about nine qualities that result from the action of holy spirit.
After, David come send people go beg Nabal make e find something for dem to chop.		David later sent messengers to Nabal, asking for ' whatever he could spare ' in the way of food supplies.
After don resurrect Jesus, e tell im disciple dem sey: ' So make una go make people my disciple for the whole world. Dey baptize dem, dey teach dem to do everything wey I don command una. ' ( Matt.		After his resurrection, Jesus addressed hundreds of his disciples and told them: " Go, therefore, and make disciples of people of all the nations, baptizing them., teaching them to observe all the things I have commanded you. "
All this resurrection wey Bible talk about na things wey really happen.		There will be a resurrection.
Apostle Peter warn us sey make we no use the freedom wey God give us as excuse to do bad things.		The apostle Peter warned against using our freedom as an excuse for catering to our fleshly desires.
As Martha dey busy dey prepare food, Mary go sitdown near Jesus to listen to wetin e want teach.		While Martha scurried about preparing a meal, Mary chose to sit at Jesus ' feet and listen to him.
Because dem no do wetin talk, dem die and dem turn to sand sand wey take make dem. - Gen.		As a consequence of rebelling against, they died and returned to the dust from which they had been created. - Gen.
But dey sofri wait for the correct time wey e go settle the matter comot for ground. Bible talk sey: ' dey patient and e dey sofri wait. '		has been waiting patiently for thousands of years so that the moral issues raised in the garden of Eden could eventually be settled beyond a doubt.
But dem dey do wetin show sey dem no support God Kingdom. ( Jas.		Rather, they faithlessly work against the fulfillment of God 's purposes.
But how una go take help dem get strong faith?		How can you help them to build a strong faith?
But some people no like to dey sing for where people dey.		However, some may feel uncomfortable singing in public.
But the answer simple. House go fit grow come out from ground?		But in reality, the answer is simple.
But when Adam sin, e no come be God pikin again.		Adam, however, lost his sonship when he rebelled against his Maker.
But when we see am dey study Bible, dey pray, and dey do everything wey e fit do to make sure sey we do family worship every week, we come know sey to learn about na im better pass. '		But when we saw her studying, praying, and doing her best to conduct family worship every week, we understood that getting to know was very important.
Daniel na one young brother and e dey 21 years. E talk say: " My teachers and schoolmates de laugh me because I de do wetin Bible talk.		Daniel, aged 21, says: " Teachers and fellow students made fun of me because I live by Bible standards.
David for Bible know sey na ' dey give life. ' ( Ps.		The psalmist David knew that " is the source of life. "
David let Abigail know sey na use am help am. If no be Abigail, e for don do wetin go make vex.		David, in turn, acknowledged that had used her to restrain him from doing what would have made him guilty before God.
Dem dey use this prayer show sey na only God dem dey serve.		With this prayer, devout Jews declare their exclusive devotion to God.
Dem no go join politics, even if e mean sey dem go lose everything wey dem get or sey na only small money dem go get. - Hebrews 10: 34.		They remain neutral, even if as a result they have less money or lose everything they own. - Hebrews 10: 34.
Dem report this caretaker sey e no dey take care of im oga property well.		Jesus ' illustration of the unrighteous steward is thought - provoking.
Dem take am as their main work to tell people about that time wey everything go better.		They count it as their chief duty and privilege to announce to the world the coming of the Golden Age.
E come tell me sey dem dey arrange English class for all the people wey dey translate, and dem want train me to be one of the teacher for the class. I dey 64 years that time.		Brother Marais, the overseer of Translation Services, explained that the brothers were arranging for a course in English comprehension for translators around the world, and at age 64, I was being considered for training to be one of the instructors.
E fit be sey na still help Daniel three friend get the position wey dem get. - Dan.		The same may have been true of Daniel 's three companions, who were also given positions of authority. - Dan.
E get wetin you fit leave mek you fit work more for?		Would you be able to make sacrifices to serve more fully?
E no still kill the fine fine animal wey dey there. Maybe Saul dey think sey na pity e pity for dem.		He spared the life of Agag, an enemy of God 's people, and he also spared the best of the flock.
Even though sey Allen leave im friends for im former congregation, e come see sey e don even get more friends.		Allen realizes that by moving, he did not lose any friends.
Even when people want do good for am, e no dey allow dem. '		He repeatedly rejected many acts of human kindness. "
For 1946, e graduate from the eighth class of Gilead School for New York, U.S.A.		In 1946, he attended the eighth class of Gilead School in New York, U.S.A.
For our jw.org website and our book, we get topic wey go help young people prepare how to answer that kind question.		Our jw.org website contains articles designed to help young people work out for themselves how to answer that question.
For this topic, we go talk about the things wey help us know sey na only Witness people dey do wetin Jesus talk for Matthew 24: 14.		This article discusses evidence that 's are the only people on earth today who are fulfilling Jesus ' prophetic words found at Matthew 24: 14.
How? Make dem respect their papa and mama, and make dem dey support dem.		They can do so by showing respect for their parents and by helping in material ways.
How go feel if we know who we suppose praise and where we suppose praise and respect dem reach?		What is the most important benefit of giving proper honor to those to whom it is due?
I dey think about am everyday. ' - Ps.		I ponder over it all day long. " - Ps.
I get deep sense pass all my teacher, because I de think deep about the things wey you de tell me everytime.		I have more insight than all my teachers, because I ponder over your reminders.
I no believe sey Euodia go do get together e no invite me, I think sey we be tight friend. '		I thought we were best friends. '
I no fear; I use Bible answer all im question. So, e come vex, shout sey: ' Carry am comot for here.		When I boldly answered his questions from the Scriptures, he angrily roared: " Take him away.
If we dey put mind to get more work so that people go sabi us, e go make us dey feel sey we better pass dem. We go dey carry shoulder up and we fit come land for trouble.		If we focus on position, prominence, or recognition, it only provides a breeding ground for egotism, competition, and eventual disappointment.
Instead, e dey put mind for wetin e dey do. E dey use all im power do am because e know sey na give am.		Instead, he focuses his energies on finding purpose and enjoyment in his present role because he views it as coming from.
Instead, e shout give David men and curse dem. E no gree give dem anything.		He replied in a harsh and insulting way, denying David 's request.
tell im people sey: ' No worry because I be your God.		says to his people: " Do not be anxious, for I am your God.
Like Martha, make you get the mind sey people wey don die go come life again ( Check paragraph 19, 20 )		Like Martha, you can be confident about the resurrection ( See paragraphs 19, 20 )
Make we dey always look for way to praise our brothers and sisters. Wetin we tell dem ' go fit help dem stand well ' for side. ( Eph.		We should seize opportunities to commend one another because such expressions are " good for building up. "
Make we use example of tree talk this matter.		Think of this example: When trees are relocated, they experience stress.
Many of us dey wish sey we get more time to read our Bible and all this book dem.		Very likely, most of us wish that we had more time to read the Bible and Bible - based publications.
Many people fit talk many things about us ' because of wetin their eye see. '		Many people form impressions and opinions of us by " what appears to the eyes. "
Many people think sey person wey dey control im temper na weak person.		Many people equate mildness with weakness.
Mek we mind wetin we go talk if people start to dey talk about politics matter for where we dey.		We must be very careful when people start discussing political issues.
Na bad thing to ask question about Bible?		Is it wrong to ask sincere questions about the Bible?
Na im I tell myself sey, " Ronald, hmm, if you want this girl, make you do something sharp sharp. "		So I said to myself, ' Ronald, if you want this girl, you 've got to act quickly. '
Na so e still be for papa and mama.		He does not just chip away and hope for the best.
Na there Witness people dey preach to dem		There they hear the good news through public witnessing
No forget sey no make us like robot wey no fit think or choose.		Remember, did not create humans to be robots, incapable of thinking and making choices.
Now wey you don give your life, you fit nack hand for chest talk sey: " dey my side; I no go fear.		Now that you have given your life to, you can say with greater confidence than ever before: " is on my side; I will not be afraid.
On Thursday evening go be Service Meeting; for there brothers fit talk wetin happen when dem go preach and write how many hours dem take preach and how many magazine dem give people.		A Service Meeting would be held on Thursday evenings for the brothers to share experiences and file service reports.
Paul talk say make we no do wetin go worry the conscience of another person. E say: " E better make you no chop meat, or drink wine, or do anything wey e fit make your brother fall. "		Regarding the need for a Christian to be sensitive to the conscience of others, Paul wrote: " It is best not to eat meat or drink wine or do anything over which your brother stumbles. "
Paul talk wetin go help this kind marriage. E sey: ' Wife, you know whether na you go save your husband?		Paul reasons: " Wife, how do you know whether you will save your husband?
People wey dey do business and government dey only think of theirself because dem get big eye.		The present economic and political systems are powered by selfish forces.
Small time, I begin follow Brother Hardaker go preaching.		Soon Brother Hardaker invited me to accompany him in the field ministry.
So, how many hours go good to take enjoy?		To achieve that, how much time should we spend on it?
So make sure sey you check dem before you talk to your pikin about the matter. Sofri help your pikin see sey wetin e promise serious well well.		Your doing so may lay the groundwork for stressing both the seriousness and the blessings of being dedicated to and of being a baptized Christian.
Some people wey dey come visit me want talk about wetin dey worry dem for mind or about family problem.		Some who come to see me want to discuss personal or family problems.
Some years wey don pass, e look as condition be for am, come tell imself sey: " As e be sey my body still strong and I never marry, I go fit work for pass as I dey do now.		Really, I could be doing much more for than I 'm doing right now. '
Still remember wetin Bible talk sey, ' dey hear prayer. ' So we fit dey sure sey e go answer us when we pray to am. ( Ps.		Bear in mind, too, that we can approach the " Hearer of prayer " with the confidence that he will give attention to our concerns.
Sylviana talk sey: " After one year wey I preach for the area, one young girl wey don born wey I dey study with, come baptize for our circuit assembly. Im name na Doratine. "		After just one year serving in my new assignment, " she relates, " Doratine, a young mother with whom I studied the Bible, got baptized at our circuit assembly. "
That talk carry weight!		What a powerful statement!
The circuit overseer go try know the brothers wey elders don see sey dem reach to be elder or ministerial servant, and e fit work with dem for preaching.		The circuit overseer tries to get to know the men who are recommended and to work with them in the field service if possible.
The only time wey we go call elders for the matter, na when we don do the first and the second thing wey Jesus talk and when we dey sure sey wetin happen na really bad thing.		The elders may intervene only if the preceding two steps have been taken and if solid evidence can be produced to show clearly what has happened.
The prayer show the kind faith wey Hannah get. - 1 Sam.		It is full of expressions of faith, praise, and appreciation. - 1 Sam.
The thing be sey, Jesus die for people wey get the mind to repent from the bad thing wey dem dey do.		After all, the ransom is provided for repentant sinners.
The truth be say, when I de help and comfort people, I de feel say I de help and de comfort myself.		Indeed, when I comfort and refresh others spiritually, I sense that I am comforting and refreshing myself.
The way we dey dress, fit tell people the kind person wey we be.		Our personal appearance says much about us.
Thief no fit near there and insect no fit chop am.		As you do this, you will build up " treasure in the heavens, where no thief gets near and no moth consumes.
Think of things wey fit cause wahala and plan wetin you go do. ( Prov.		Think of situations that might lead to conflict, and determine how to handle them.
This brothers really help me.		They had a strong influence on me.
Two of dem come dey plan to go work for Bethel.		Both then began working toward the goal of Bethel service.
We come see one better place wey we fit dey do meeting and we arrange the place.		We found a suitable meeting place and fixed it up.
We dey do wetin the government for our country talk.		We cooperate with them as they perform their duties.
We fit no talk this kind thing come out, but e fit dey our mind or person fit make us dey think like that.		We ourselves might never voice such a thought; yet, the seeds of this wrong viewpoint might be in us or they could be planted in us and start to grow.
We happy well well sey no give us long list about how we go dress.		How grateful we are that does not burden us with detailed lists of regulations about our dress and grooming.
We need to study Bible well well so that we go fit bear any wahala and mek we fit reach where we dey go.		In a similar way, we need plenty of spiritual food to endure and to reach our goal.
We really happy well well for there, because many people wey ready to learn the truth wey dey inside Bible dey there. And dem come be Witness.		Those were exciting times because so many had a keen desire to learn Bible truths, and they became our fellow.
Wetin God want make husband and wife dey do?		What responsibilities did God give husbands and wives?
Wetin Paul talk for this verse show sey na the message wey dey Bible or wetin God get for mind to do, this place dey talk about.		The context shows that the apostle Paul was referring to the message, or expression of God 's purpose, such as we find in the Bible.
Wetin help Jacob continue to fight, and how God take bless am?		What helped Jacob to persevere, and how was he rewarded?
Wetin we fit do to make people mind come down?		How can we provide words of comfort to the bereaved?
When Paul dey talk about faith and love, e write sey: ' If I get the faith wey I fit use take uproot mountain but I no get love, I no be anything. '		Comparing faith with love, Paul wrote: " If I have all the faith so as to move mountains, but do not have love, I am nothing. "
When Samuel dey around three years, e carry am go meet Eli wey be High Priest for tabernacle wey dey Shiloh.		As soon as young Samuel was weaned, at about the age of three, Hannah did exactly as she had vowed to God.
When day break, the people wey dey rule the city come send people go release Paul and Silas.		As the new day starts, the city magistrates send constables to release Paul and Silas.
When you first see the stone, you no go know sey gold dey the body.		At first glance, the gold may not be visible in the ore.
Which example show how partial fit affect us?		Use examples to show how prejudice can affect us.
Which time we fit copy how take dey judge matter?		Under what circumstances may we need to reflect 's sense of justice?
Why e be sey to just know Bible no fit help us be friend?		Why is having Bible knowledge not enough to become a spiritually - minded person?
Why e suppose sweet us sey we get New World Translation?		Why are we grateful for the New World Translation?
Why the government for this world no fit remove the problem wey people de face?		Why can human governments not bring about the changes mankind needs most?
You fit don read one of this people story for the topic " The Bible Changes Lives, " wey dey our Watchtower.		You have likely read and greatly enjoyed a number of these experiences as published in The Watchtower in the series " The Bible Changes Lives. "
You fit see different different way to use your live serve God, if you check the topic " Use Spiritual Goals to Glorify Your Creator, " wey dey July 15, 2004 Watchtower.		You will find some practical steps for setting spiritual goals outlined in the article " Use Spiritual Goals to Glorify Your Creator, " published in The Watchtower of July 15, 2004.
Zeynep wey come from France, talk sey: " The preaching wey dem arrange, make my preaching better.		This campaign affected my personal ministry a lot.
paragraph 2 ) Go check the meaning of " Undeserved kindness " in the " Glossary of Bible Terms " in the revised New World Translation.		paragraph 2 ) See " Undeserved kindness " in the " Glossary of Bible Terms " in the revised New World Translation.
No Fear.		Do Not Be Afraid.
This kind people no believe sey God go soon destroy bad people.		And it impels people to focus on fleshly desires.
Until that time reach, we still get time and chance to use all our mind and power take support work.		But in the meantime, there are many opportunities for us to support 's cause with courage and zeal.
The truth be sey, we never really understand many things wey God make, like heaven and earth, day and night, and light. And we no even know how the heaven wey e make big reach. ( Eccl.		It is true that we have only a little understanding of the many things God created, such as space, light, and gravity, and we have seen only a small fraction of the universe.
Wetin Adam and Eve do make dem get more freedom?		Did Adam and Eve 's choice eventually enhance their freedom in any way?
How we go take show sey we dey pity people like?		In our dealings with others, how can we reflect God 's compassion?
This one fit no easy for people wey just marry.		Some new husbands and wives do not find this to be easy.
When the time reach, choose person wey better pass all the people wey e don use before.		In his own due time, he appointed someone who would be superior to any of the men he had used thus far.
But if we choose wetin bad, we go ready to face wetin go come out of am.		But if we choose a wrong course, we will have to face the consequences.
E still want make we try control wetin we dey think and how we dey behave.		He expects us to work hard to control our thoughts and feelings.
We fit enjoy peace with God now because we don settle.		This reconciliation enables us to be at peace with.
If we let our life match wetin we dey learn for Bible, e go make us dey think, dey talk and dey do things wey like. This one no mean sey we go just fold our hand.		As we yield to the guidance of God 's holy spirit and align our thinking with 's viewpoint as revealed in his Word, we will become more godly in our thoughts, words, and actions.
This one dey really show sey dem get faith and love!		What a powerful demonstration of true Christian faith and love!
Paul talk this one because e know sey hate am when person use wayo end im marriage. - Mal.		Paul could say that because he knew that also hates a treacherous divorce. - Mal.
no need person to write law for am about wetin correct. E dey always do the correct thing. Na this one make am give human being law wey dem go follow.		His perfect sense of justice emanates from his own being, and on that basis, he provided written laws for humans.
And e no still mean sey e no value us. The thing be sey, we dey put wetin suppose be first for front.		We are merely keeping sovereignty and salvation in proper perspective.
And e sweet me sey I dey help people for another area wey Witness no too dey. '		And it 's cool to be helping where there is a greater need.
And when we don get God spirit, we need to try well well make we no come dey think like people for this world.		Since fleshly attitudes are all around us, we need to put forth real effort to develop spirituality and to guard it once we have it.
Apart from sey Jesus na King and High Priest, na im go still ' build temple. '		In addition to being commissioned King and High Priest, Jesus was assigned to " build the temple of. "
Apostle Paul tell brothers and sisters for congregation say: " Make wuna welcome each other, the way Jesus Christ still welcome wuna. "		The apostle Paul urged those in the congregation: " Welcome one another, just as the Christ also welcomed you. "
As people wey dey ' follow God example, ' make we do everything wey we fit do to dey welcome stranger wey dey with us. - Eph.		As " imitators of God, " then, let us do our very best to welcome strangers among us. - Eph.
As people wey dey serve, we suppose to dey think about how our dressing go make other people feel.		As devoted servants of, we are concerned not only with our personal preferences but with the effect that our dress and grooming could have on others.
Before we baptize, na so many of us take change the kind bad life wey we dey live so that we go fit serve.		Like Kevin, many of us had to make significant changes prior to our baptism in order to bring our life into harmony with the Bible 's basic requirements.
Bible make us dey sure sey our ' sin fit clean comot. '		God 's Word assures us that our sins can be " blotted out. "
Bible talk about " plenty people wey nobody go fit count, " wey " come from different country and place, " and wey dey speak different language.		We can only try to imagine how and Jesus must rejoice as they observe hour after hour millions of earth 's inhabitants attending this special event until that day ends.
But, how take look wetin Asa do?		How, though, did view Asa 's course?
But apart from all this one, make una wear love like cloth, because na im dey join everything together, to make am complete. ' - Col.		But besides all these things, clothe yourselves with love, for it is a perfect bond of union. " - Col.
But how this two type of IUD take dey work?		What is understood about how these two types function?
But no other work better pass this one. "		Still, there is no other work I would rather do. "
But we still dey practice how to preach and dey do Bible game for Lingala language. This one dey make dem happy to learn the language. "		But we also include practice sessions and games in Lingala so that they can learn this language while having fun. "
David, wey go be the next king, tell am sey: ' God go bless you for the better sense wey you get!		David said to Abigail: " Blessed be your good sense!
Dem later face some problem. But wetin help dem continue to preach for Madagascar?		What gave the couple the strength to stay in their assignment when problems arose?
Dem no want know who the person really be for inside.		The Pharisees focused solely on what a sinner had done rather than on who a sinner was at heart.
Dem use only 52 days build the fence finish! ( Neh. 2: 18, ftn.		They then completed Jerusalem 's walls in just 52 days!
E come still talk sey: " The thing wey dey always dey my mind and the thing wey I want, na to dey for meeting with brothers and sisters. "		He added: " My innermost thought and desire is to attend the meetings. "
E come talk something wey im disciple dem follow. E sey: ' Anybody wey dey carry sword na sword go kill am. ' people still dey follow wetin Jesus talk till today. - Matt.		Then Jesus stated a fundamental truth, a principle that guides his followers to this day: " All those who take up the sword will perish by the sword. " - Matt.
E dey sweet dem sey dem don train young men for congregation wey go dey do the work for organization.		Similarly, older men feel proud when they have trained younger ones to take on theocratic responsibilities.
E fit be sey, Noah tell dem the same word wey tell am, when e sey: ' The time don come wey I go sweep anything wey get life comot, because dem don take their bad cover the whole world.		Quite likely, Noah repeated to the people the exact words that had spoken to him: " I have decided to put an end to all flesh, because the earth is full of violence on account of them.
E fit be that first time wey you see God name, inside Bible.		That may have happened when you first saw God 's name, in the Bible.
E get another organization wey dey follow wetin Bible talk like this, even when e fit hard some of their member to do?		Has any other religious organization been willing to rely fully on God 's Word, even when doing so presents a real challenge to some of its members?
E good make you take am sey your pikin dey ask all this question because e really want learn.		Do not dismiss them as of little importance, and do not avoid a subject simply because it may make you feel uncomfortable.
E no tey Dorothy my sister come start to pioneer.		Dorothy soon became a pioneer too.
E promise to give us life wey no go end. go do am when time reach, no be sey go come! So, make we ' dey patient and dey happy as we dey endure. ' ( Col.		We are willing to wait for because we know that he will fulfill his promise to give us everlasting life at exactly the right time, the best time!
E still sey: " If we dey get only the things wey we thank for, how many things for dey our hand? "		I once heard an excellent reminder: If we woke up tomorrow with only the things we thanked for today, what would we end up with? "
E still stop to dey talk to me.		Then she stopped talking to me altogether.
E still talk sey, na because the matter go court, na im make government allow many brothers everywhere dey preach.		If the publisher had not kept on in the field, there would not be any cases in the Supreme Court; but it is because you, the publisher, the brothers all over the world, keep on and will not quit that the defeat of persecution is brought about.
E talk sey, " For everything wey I don do for my life, na this one better pass. "		He says, " It was the best decision I ever made. "
E talk sey, " If anybody don give una this book, mek una give me or mek una throwey am! "		He said, " If someone has given you a copy, give it to me or throw it away! "
Even when Jesus carry imself down wash their leg, dem no stop to dey argue about who big pass. And Peter come dey make mouth.		Jesus humbly washed their feet, but they were still arguing about which one of them was the greatest; and Peter was overconfident.
Even with all this one, Esther no stop to respect people and behave well.		Yet, she remained respectful and composed.
For Matthew 7: 24 - 27 Jesus talk about two people wey build house.		Matthew 7: 24 - 27 recounts Jesus ' illustration of two men who each built a house.
For May 1909, Brother Russell start to travel again. This na the fourth time wey e dey travel. For New York, e enter one ship wey dem dey call Mauretania. One brother wey sabi operate one machine wey be like typewriter follow am travel. Im name na Brother Huntsinger.		Leaving New York in May 1909 on the Mauretania for his fourth visit, Brother Russell took along a stenographer, Brother Huntsinger, so that the time traveling across the ocean could be used to dictate Watch Tower articles.
For example, the governing body support Philip when e go preach to Samaria people about Jesus Christ.		When Philip the evangelizer preached about Christ to the Samaritans, he received the full backing of those on the governing body.
For many years, I work for this building wey dey 124 Columbia Heights		Columbia Heights, where I worked for decades
Give one example of how Jew people suffer when Jesus dey this earth?		Give an example of the burden faced by first - century Jews.
How angels take help Moses?		How did angels assist Moses?
How apostle Paul take show sey e dey thank God for the favor wey God show am?		How did the apostle Paul show that he was grateful for God 's undeserved kindness?
How e be sey the love wey get for us, fit make us know where we suppose do reach?		How will meditating on God 's love motivate us to be modest?
I know them because my big sister marry their big brother.		I knew them - they were the younger sisters of the man who had married my older sister.
I lekpa finish that time and my weight na 57 kg.		I weighed only about 125 pounds ( 57 kg ) and was as skinny as a rail.
I still make friends for one congregation wey dey use Vietnamese language near my area.		I also made friends in a nearby Vietnamese - language congregation.
If they give me, I go be the first black person for that company.		If they hired me, I would be the first black man to work for that company.
If una fit, as far as e dey una hand, make una make peace with everybody. ' ( Rom.		If possible, as far as it depends on you, be peaceable with all men. "
If we want make Bible touch the mind of people wey we dey preach to, we no go only read am.		Of course, more is needed than merely reading Bible texts to those we are conversing with. Why?
If you want support this work, abeg go www.jw.org.		To make a donation, please visit www.jw.org.
Instead, e mean sey, if the woman get pikin to take care of, plus other house work, e fit no get time do amebo. E fit no still get time to put mouth for matter wey no concern am. ( 1 Tim.		Rather, it refers to the fact that a woman 's having children to tend to, along with the other aspects of caring for a household, may keep her from falling into a pattern of gossiping and meddling in others ' affairs.
don send the angel dem to arrange how to kill wicked people and save good people.		had commissioned his angels not only to organize the destruction of the wicked but also to separate the righteous for survival.
go bless people wey dey full - time service ( Check paragraph 11 - 13 )		Many blessings await those who enter the full - time service ( See paragraphs 11 - 13 )
Jesus know sey the sin wey dey our body dey make us do bad things sometimes.		Jesus knew of the tendency that imperfect humans have to succumb to the weaknesses of the flesh.
MARRIAGE na normal thing for life.		MARRIAGE is very much a part of life.
Make you read this Bible verse and think about dem well well: Psalm 34: 17 - 19; 55: 22; and 145: 18, 19.		If you ever doubt that cares for you, meditate on such Bible passages as Psalm 34: 17 - 19; 55: 22; and 145: 18, 19.
Na dey teach us.		We are taught by.
Na Jesus sacrifice God go use take comot sin from people wey show sey dem get faith. Na im e go still use give dem life wey no go end.		Through the ransom, God gives all who exercise faith the opportunity to reach perfection and live forever.
Na because we love and our neighbor. Nobody dey force us do am.		Put simply, we do this work of our own volition because we love and we love our neighbor.
Na one Bible verse wey dem read for meeting. E think about the verse and e come even see other verse wey connect with am.		A turning point came when she meditated on a scripture that was used at one of our meetings and that she connected with other Bible verses.
Na our character.		By our conduct.
Na so e still be for Hebrew and Greek language wey dem take write many part for Bible.		The same is true of Hebrew and Greek, the languages that most of the Bible was written in.
Na this im journey we talk about for the beginning of this story. After e give talk for Dublin, one man wey people know wey dey study Bible matter come ask am question.		After the public talk in Dublin, a renowned theologian brought along by O 'Connor received Scriptural answers to his questions, much to the audience 's enjoyment.
Na to preach the good news about the Kingdom of God.		The preaching of the good news of God 's Kingdom.
Na warm breeze dey push the eagle go up. E dey make the eagle fit save im power.		A draft of warm air gives it the lift it needs, enabling the eagle to conserve energy.
Na wetin God talk sey e go do be that.		That was God 's expressed purpose.
No Let Anything Make You Miss Wetin God Promise, Nov.		Imitate 's Compassion, Sept.
One, na only two side dey, and we must choose one.		First, there are only two sides, and we must choose one.
Papa and mama wey get better sense go help their pikin know why e good to dey hear word.		A parent with practical wisdom helps his child to understand why he should obey.
People go full this world, then everywhere for this world go turn to paradise.		Humans would fill the earth to a comfortable degree and would extend their home until the entire globe was a paradise.
Person wey dey use ' all im mind serve ', na person wey love well well and wey ready to use all im life serve am.		Serving God with " a complete heart " involves full devotion that does not end.
Sara wey dey live for Colombia see as take help am.		Sara, who lives in Colombia, experienced 's saving power.
So we fit ask ourself sey: ' When person talk wetin no dey inside Bible or ask me question wey hard for preaching, I fit use Bible answer the question well?		So you might ask yourself: ' When householders express opinions that are contrary to Scriptural teachings or they ask difficult questions, am I able to give answers that are based on the Bible?
So when something dey worry you for mind, make you tell for prayer.		So when we are anxious, we need to turn our worries into prayers.
Sometimes, e fit remember wetin e suffer.		For some time, he likely experienced vivid memories of his suffering.
The Greek word wey dem translate as ' use all their mind find am ' show sey na all our power we go use and e go come from our mind.		The Greek verb translated " earnestly seeking " is a form that implies intensity and concerted effort.
The answer wey you give am today fit no be wetin e need tomorrow.		The answers that satisfy your child 's curious mind today may not be enough for him tomorrow.
The brothers wey come from different country get one mind, and dem love each other. This one no go ever comot for their mind.		The love and unity among the brothers from different countries made a lasting impression.
The place fine and e dey for Southeast Asia. We see new things, we hear new things, and we smell fine fine scent wey we never smell before.		This beautiful land in Southeast Asia exposed us to exotic sights, sounds, and aromas that were different from anything we had ever experienced.
The temple ' go big and fine well well, so that people for everywhere go see sey e fine and dem go talk about am. '		The building was to be " exceedingly magnificent, so that its fame and beauty [ would ] be known in all lands. "
The time wey we tell sey we want use all our life serve am, we promise am sey we no go stop to do wetin e want, even if e no go easy sometimes.		When we dedicated our lives to, we vowed that we would do his will no matter what. We knew that it would not always be easy to keep that promise.
The way we take dey handle dem, go show whether we dey keep our promise. ( Ps.		Our stand during tests both large and small should show that we take seriously our pledge to praise " day after day. "
This one go help us learn truth wey we no know before. Because we just learn am, e go ' new ' for our eye. ( Josh.		This will help us to discover truths that may be " new " in the sense that we did not know them before.
This one na one way wey e take dey help us.		God 's active force is a very powerful source of comfort.
This things fit give you sense wey go save you. " - 2 TIM.		From infancy you have known the holy writings, which are able to make you wise for salvation. " - 2 TIM.
This things make us understand wetin dey Bible and dem dey among the first things wey we learn when we start to study Bible.		They are of fundamental importance and are likely among the first truths we learned when we began to study God 's Word.
To dey vex anyhow, to dey curse, and to dey shout for people no good. Na im make Bible tell us sey make we stop am. ( Eph.		For good reason, the Bible warns against anger, abusive speech, and screaming.
To know wetin think, we must do personal study.		To acquaint ourselves with 's thinking, we need to make personal study a priority.
Today, we no get any reason to expect sey Jesus or im Father go do this kind miracle for us.		We have no basis to expect that Jesus or his Father will now perform such a miracle for us.
Ute don dey preach for Madagascar for 23 years now.		Ute has now been serving in Madagascar for 23 years.
We love Bible and we want gain from wetin dey inside.		It is only sensible to conclude that because we appreciate God 's Word, we will want to derive full benefit from it.
We really want help our children and other Bible student to do wetin dem suppose do to fit baptize.		Yes, we want our children and other Bible students to progress to the point of baptism!
We remember how our papa and mama take train us, so all of us dey try go meeting and preaching together every time.		As our parents had done with us, we worked hard to attend the meetings and have a regular share in the field service as a family.
Wetin fit help us to see the correction wey God dey give as better thing?		How can we build appreciation for God 's discipline?
Wetin go help us check how we love enjoyment reach?		How might we analyze how much we love pleasures?
Wetin we fit learn from Joseph example wey go help us if brothers or sisters for congregation no treat us well?		What lessons can we learn from Joseph 's experience that will help us if we face injustice at the hands of a fellow believer?
Wetin we go do to show sey we dey put our mind for the spirit?		Setting our minds on the spirit involves our doing what?
Wetin we learn from wetin happen to Joseph? - Gen.		What lesson do we learn from what happened to Joseph? - Gen.
What about many people wey no fit know and wey no serve am before dem die? Jesus die for dem.		What about the billions of people who died without ever having an opportunity to know and serve?
When Paul dey for Troas, e see one vision.		The answer came in a vision while he was in Troas.
When time reach, make e no pain brothers wey don dey old sey dem want leave their work for young men.		Older brothers should not be disheartened when it becomes necessary to hand their assignments over to younger men.
When we dey go Balykchy and when we dey come back, we still dey preach to passengers inside train.		Even on the train to and from Balykchy, we were able to witness to passengers.
Which bad thing no fit stop wetin get for mind?		What rebellious actions did not defeat 's purpose?
Why e good make we try follow wetin Bible talk about how to praise and respect person?		Why should you continue to work to understand and apply what the Bible tells us about showing honor?
Why e good to read Bible with free mind?		Why do we need to read the Bible with an open mind?
Why you suppose to dey always thank?		Why should you always give thanks to?
You go still see sey nobody fit rule like am.		It is the best rulership.
So pray make God give you im spirit, and make you try to dey teach your pikin. Na when you don do this one, go fit bless your work. - Eph.		So pray for his spirit, and work hard to teach your precious children, for by doing so, you give much to bless. - Eph.
Use the same voice read reach where dem for break the song for person to fit breath.		Next, using the same volume, say all the words from a single phrase of the song in one breath.
[CONTENT_REMOVED]		See paragraph 13 )
If you value life like, ' nobody blood go dey your head. '		View life as views it, and " no bloodguilt will come upon you. "
The bad things wey dem dey do come dey plenty.		Violence was increasing.
Na im make Jesus teach us make we pray to as ' our Father wey dey heaven. ' ( Matt.		How appropriate, therefore, that Jesus taught us to pray: " Our Father in the heavens. "
For example, the city wey tell Israel people make dem build dey help elders know how to ' judge matter well. ' And e teach all of us how to ' use love do things with each other and dey pity for each other. ' ( Zech.		The cities of refuge, for example, teach elders how to " judge with true justice, " and they teach all of us how to " deal with one another in loyal love and mercy. "
Which advice other papa and mama don give?		What suggestions have other parents offered?
Why dem dey ask people wey want baptize if dem don give their life?		Why are baptism candidates asked if they have made a dedication to?
How wetin we dey wait for take different from wetin many people for this world dey wait for?		How does the cherished hope of true Christians differ from the hope of people in Satan 's world?
Rev. 4: 11 ) King David use better better word take talk about the kind position wey only God get.		Recall the beautiful words of King David in describing the unique and lofty position that alone occupies.
E fit be sey help Daniel get this high position because e want use Daniel help im people. don first do something like that for Joseph, when e dey Egypt. And e still do am for Esther and Mordecai for Persia.		Perhaps maneuvered matters this way so that Daniel could be a blessing to his own people, as were Joseph in Egypt and Esther and Mordecai in Persia.
Use Better Mind Wait for!		Are You Willing to Wait Patiently?
But notice how James start the letter wey e send give them:		But take note of how James began his letter:
But Noah no join the people wey dey do bad.		But Noah stood out as different.
After 1970, many of our brothers for Malawi lose all their property because dem no ' gree join any group for politics.		After 1970 many in Malawi had to give up everything they owned because they refused to join a political group.
And dem no go let the bad character wey people for this world get, affect their family.		The spirit of the world is unacceptable in a Christian home.
And na better thing for pikin to fit speak pass one language.		It can be useful for a child to know more than one language.
Another thing be sey, when person no happy, we fit still read something from Watchtower or our website for the person.		Additionally, reading from The Watchtower or our website can invigorate someone who is downcast.
Because of wetin e go gain, the caretaker for Jesus story make friend with people.		The steward in Jesus ' illustration made friends for personal benefit.
Because people for Ireland like God Word, Brother Russell come still visit there when e dey go Europe the third time.		Because of the considerable interest found there, Ireland was also included in Russell 's third European trip.
Bible talk sey: ' E dey pikin mind to do things wey no make sense. '		It is the opposite of foolishness. "
But, one day, one man wey get land come ask us if we go like buy im land; the man dey pack go United States. We no even expect am at all!		However, one day a property owner unexpectedly asked whether we would like to buy his land; he was moving to the United States.
But e use Mary name only four times.		On the other hand, Luke 's account is much more focused on Mary.
But we fit get wahala if we dey waste our time for all this kind things.		There is the danger of becoming consumed with what amounts to trivia.
Check this topic " Anxiety About Money " wey dey July 1, 2015, Watchtower.		See the article " Anxiety About Money " in the July 1, 2015, issue of The Watchtower.
Check wetin dey the box " Come See Am By Yourself! "		Note the box " See It for Yourself! "
Dem go fit use Bible give you better advice.		They can give you good advice from the Bible.
E dey important now pass before sey make we dey preach the good news about God Kingdom!		More than ever, our mission as the end nears is to preach the good news of the Kingdom!
E do many people the way e do Mabel Philbrick wey talk sey: " E sweet us well well as we come know sey we go start the work again! "		Many felt as did Mabel Philbrick, who said: " How thrilling it was to know that we were again to have a work to do! "
E fit no hard you to talk to one of your classmate. But e no easy to talk to many of dem at once.		It can be especially challenging when speaking to a large group rather than to a classmate one - on - one.
E fit use ball or stone as example, because ball or stone need to stand ontop something before e go fit stand.		The child could use a ball or a stone to illustrate the point by showing that objects with mass have to rest on something.
E love dem well well. E dey protect dem, show dem how to live better life, and e dey bless dem.		Youths in the Christian congregation are precious in the eyes of, who loves them dearly and gives them his protection, guidance, and blessing.
E still dey make us love more.		After all, why did he provide his Word in the first place?
Elders still dey make the hand of brothers and sisters strong, when dem follow the brothers go preaching and when dem go visit dem for their house. - Read Isaiah 35: 3, 4.		By working along with fellow publishers in the ministry and by making shepherding visits, they also strengthen the weak hands of those who are anxious at heart. - Read Isaiah 35: 3, 4.
For example, Hannah no fit give imself pikin. But e trust sey go help am.		For example, Hannah could not overcome the problem of barrenness on her own.
For this topic, we go learn how we fit make our mind and other people mind come down when person die.		This article will show us how to gain comfort, both for ourselves and for others who are grieving.
For this topic, we go talk about this three question: From beginning, wetin God get for mind for this earth and human being?		We will consider three questions: What was God 's original purpose for the earth and mankind?
Get am for mind sey ' the peace wey God dey give, go protect how you dey feel and the things wey you dey think. '		If anxiety strikes, go immediately to in prayer with all your concerns.
Gloria study Bible with e wife because e never be Witness that time.		His wife was then an unbeliever, and Gloria started a Bible study with her.
Help your children know sey God no dey force anybody to serve am.		Instead, explain to them that each person must choose whether to serve.
How God Word take help people for apostle Paul time?		How did God 's Word exert power in the first century?
I dey with una everytime go reach when the world go end. ' ( Matt.		I am with you all the days until the conclusion of the system of things. "
If e dey do you like that, think about Job wey serve God well. E talk sey e do ' bad things when e young. '		If that is the case with you, think of the faithful man Job, who admitted to ' the sins of his youth. '
If government worker want collect bribe from Witness people hand, many no dey gree give the worker because of wetin dem don learn for Bible.		On the basis of their Bible - trained conscience, most mature Christians are not comfortable giving tips solicited by officials.
If na so, that one go make us get more reason like Martha, to put mind for the time wey dead people go come life again.		If so, that would give us added reason to look forward, as Martha did, to a time of resurrection.
If the answer na yes, no waste time to tell am sey e dey do well.		Be quick to offer sincere commendation.
If we do all this things, we go get better sense wey go give us life. - Prov.		Then we will have safeguarded practical wisdom, and it will give us life. - Prov.
go bless dem because na person wey dey serve am dem marry. ( 1 Cor.		Of course, they will be blessed for having followed the counsel to marry " only in the Lord. "
go still help us get place where we and our family fit put head.		can likewise help us find adequate housing for our families.
Joshua no fear, e carry dem go fight the war as Moses tell am.		Following Moses ' direction, courageous Joshua led the Israelites into battle.
Later, things change.		Finally came a turning point.
Madison na one young sister and e dey 15 years. E talk say: " I de struggle to follow the advice for Bible. And e no easy for me make I no do things wey other young people like to do. "		Madison, 15, says: " It 's a struggle for me to stick to 's standards and not go along with what my peers think is cool or fun. "
Make dem marry. '		Let them marry. "
Make we first talk about the character of person wey dey allow im body control am.		Consider first the attitude of a physical individual.
Make we learn four things wey go help us.		Let us consider four ways.
Make we still think about how the God wey high pass go feel.		It should also take into account what is pleasing to the Sovereign Lord.
Make we talk about the fine example of Esther wey this kind thing happen to.		Consider Esther 's excellent response to a surprising turn of events.
Make you no forget sey God ' fit do over surplus of everything wey we beg am or think about. ' This one go help us use all our mind trust am. - Eph.		Our confidence in him will be strengthened when we keep in mind that he can " do more than superabundantly beyond all the things we ask or conceive. " - Eph.
My mama pioneer with one sister for another congregation.		My mother pioneered with a sister in another congregation.
Na better thing for person to put im life for hand.		Putting yourself in 's hands is never a wrong move.
Na im make Bible tell us sey make we ' no stop to pray ' and make we ' dey pray every time. ' - Rom.		Thus, the Bible encourages us to " persevere in prayer, " even to " pray constantly. " - Rom.
Na im make dem get the mind sey, if Jesus dey around, their brother wey be Jesus friend, for no die.		For that reason, they felt that had Jesus been present, Lazarus would not have died.
Noah still show sey e get faith because e be ' person wey dey preach about wetin good. ' - Gen.		Thus, Noah further exercised his faith by being " a preacher of righteousness. " - Gen.
Person wey get this kind character fit cause big problem for congregation.		A bitter individual can exert a bad influence in the congregation.
Person wey no dey overdo, know wetin e suppose do and wetin e no suppose do. E know wetin e fit do, and wetin e no fit do.		Modesty involves having a proper estimate of ourselves and an awareness of our limitations.
So na we suppose first show dem sey we love dem.		So we should take the initiative to show a warm and sincere interest in them.
Some people dey enjoy their work, sport or other things wey dem dey like to do.		Some find satisfaction in a career, a sport, or a hobby.
The holy spirit na one fine gift from our Father,. This gift de help us get true peace. - Acts 9: 31.		We are also helped to develop lasting peace by means of a remarkable gift from our heavenly Father - his holy spirit. - Acts 9: 31.
The person wey write Psalm 147 know sey, for Bible time, God show Israel people favor.		The psalmist knew how favored God 's ancient people were.
The truth be sey, whether we dey young, we don old, or we just baptize, all of us fit use song praise.		Indeed, all in the congregation - young, old, and newly interested ones - can join in this form of direct worship of.
They feel say na their country better pass. They believe say their life go better if na their own person de rule them.		A nationalistic spirit has taken over, and many take for granted that political independence will improve their lives.
They talk say na only one place we fit go. The name of the place na Pine Bluff, for Arkansas.		In response, we were given just one choice: Pine Bluff, Arkansas.
This na wetin Bible talk: ' Make wife no leave im husband.		The Bible gives these instructions: " A wife should not separate from her husband.
This na wetin happen to Birgit, one sister wey be pioneer for Germany.		Several years ago, Birgit, a pioneer in Germany, attended her daughter 's school graduation.
This work no be the same with the one wey dem dey do for heaven.		It was very different from the one they had in heaven.
To Serve Fit Cause Katakata for Family, Oct.		Let Nothing Deprive You of the Prize, Nov.
True true, ' love no dey ever end. '		Yes, " love never fails. "
We learn sey when we dey face serious problem, go fit help us. Our own be sey make we continue to hold am tight.		As the examples of Hezekiah, Joseph, and Sarah show, can help us to conquer the seemingly unconquerable if we remain faithful to Him.
We still dey travel with dem go inside bush, and we dey enjoy how we take dey gather round fire dey story together.		We would also go camping with them and would have very enjoyable conversations around the campfire.
We want make dem follow our better example.		We wanted to mirror the examples that had been set for us.
Wetin Jephthah promise, and wetin come happen?		What did Jephthah vow, and what was the result?
Wetin Jesus do about partial when e dey this earth?		How did Jesus deal with prejudice?
Wetin Job no do when e get money, and when e dey suffer?		What contrasting challenges did Job experience?
Wetin be some things wey give Adam and Eve?		What are some gifts that gave Adam and Eve?
Wetin go help pikin know how to control imself?		How does a child develop self - discipline?
Wetin go remain when the bad things wey people dey do don stop?		What will replace wrong activities?
Wetin make God free us?		For what purpose have we been set free?
Wetin make people wey get cool temper dey happy?		Why are mild - tempered ones happy?
Wetin we go talk about for this topic?		What will we examine in this article?
Wetin we go talk about for this topic?		What will we now consider?
When Jesus baptize, e hear one voice from heaven wey talk sey: " Na my Son be this, wey I choose.		Jesus himself received encouragement from his Father.
When we dey read am, dem dey listen well, and sometimes tears go dey comot from their eye. "		But the family 's compassion did not stop there.
When you start to study Bible with Witness people, you fit see yourself like that person wey dey pick gold comot from where e mix with sand sand and stone.		In a single season, hardworking prospectors may find in such deposits several pounds of gold, worth tens of thousands of dollars.
Which question we fit ask about resurrection?		What questions might arise regarding the resurrection?
Which time the anointed comot from fake religion hand?		When were the anointed freed from Babylonian captivity?
Which time we go help dem? Na when we dey invite dem come Memorial, the Memorial day and when we visit dem after Memorial.		The Memorial campaign, the Memorial itself, and the calls we later make on those who attended may provide us with the opportunity to help sincere truth - seekers to understand the answer to that important question.
Why no leave wetin happen for Eden?		Why does not tolerate rebellion?
Why dem dey do this work?		What should be our motive for doing this work?
Why e good make papa and mama dey always teach their pikin about?		Why is a parent 's continued effort important?
Why we talk so? Na because of wetin e tell im people. E tell dem sey: ' Na me dey make una mind come down. ' - Isa.		the foremost example of empathy, assured his people: " I myself am the One comforting you. " - Isa.
Zechariah go don fear well well when e see sey the woman want come outside.		Imagine Zechariah 's horror as he sees her attempt to crawl out of her confinement!
Holy spirit still help Jesus get better character like love, joy, and strong faith.		In addition, holy spirit produced in Jesus perfect fruitage, including love, joy, and stalwart faith.
For example, around 1930 and 1940, our brothers for United States over suffer.		During the 1930 ' s and early 1940 ' s, our brothers in the United States faced tremendous opposition.
[CONTENT_REMOVED]		See paragraphs 11 - 13 )
If we learn how to dey correct ourself, e go help us follow wetin Titus 2: 12 talk.		But he or she can steadily grow toward maturity as part of learning to put on the Christlike " new personality. "
You no like am as first talk sey e dey pity people?		Do you not find it heartwarming that God mentioned these endearing traits ahead of any others?
Which question dem we go ask ourself, and why we go ask?		What questions might we need to ask ourselves, and why?
Mek we dey do like Jephthah and im pikin. Mek we get am for mind sey go bless us, if we get faith and if we dey do wetin e want.		Let us imitate Jephthah and his daughter, knowing that when we remain faithful, will bless us.
No be only this one e do for us o!		In fact, the ransom accomplishes more.
How we take know sey wetin dey Psalm 16: 10 no happen to David?		Why can we be sure that Psalm 16: 10 was not fulfilled in David?
Wetin we go talk about for the next topic?		What will we discuss in the following article?
Which chance Joseph get when e dey prison?		What opportunity presented itself while Joseph was in prison?
So, wetin go happen if person just dey do wetin im mind tell am?		So, what could it mean for us if we simply follow our heart?
Many brothers wey live for apostle Paul time get this kind help from their brothers and sisters.		Many in the first century received that sort of spiritual strengthening.
So when good thing happen to our brothers, instead of us to dey jealous dem, make we dey happy for dem.		Consider the example of King Saul 's son Jonathan.
Make dem do wetin government law talk.		They should avoid lawless actions.
And no be there e end, im work go still change.		And that will not be his last change of assignment.
This character na the character ' wey God make the way e want. '		It refers to a personality that is " created according to God 's will. "
For apostle time, some Christian sell their property like land or house, and dem give the money to the apostles.		In the first century, some Christians sold items that they owned, such as fields or houses, and brought the money to the apostles.
Even after the wahala, Job continue to serve with all im heart.		During that time, he continued to give exclusive devotion.
The bad thing be sey, many people for this world dey take their marriage play.		Sad to say, many individuals in this world have a casual attitude toward marriage.
After we don do research, people don advise us, and we don pray, make we let God spirit direct us.		After doing research, consulting others, and praying for guidance, we need to take steps in the direction that God 's spirit is leading us.
After we don pull the old character comot from our body, we need to trowey am.		It is one thing to strip off the old personality, yet quite another to keep it off.
And as this children dey grow, dem come dey big and strong pass other children.		That conclusion was no doubt confirmed when those unions produced abnormal offspring.
And how we go take ' remember the people wey dey direct ' us, especially the group of people wey be ' the slave wey get sense and wey dem fit trust '? - Heb.		And how can we " remember those who are taking the lead " among us, especially those who make up " the faithful and discreet slave "? - Heb.
Apart from that one, dem don tell theirself sey, nothing for this world go make dem comot mind from wetin dem don plan.		Moreover, they make up their mind not to be distracted by this world.
Before three years, e pass 12,000 elders wey don go this school for where dem dey call Patterson and Bethel wey dey Brooklyn.		Over the next two years, more than 12,000 elders were taught at Patterson and at Brooklyn Bethel.
But how prayer fit help you when your mind no settle and when things don dey worry you for mind? - Ps. 94: 18, 19, ftn.		But how can prayer help you to avoid becoming overwhelmed by disquieting thoughts and anguish? - Ps. 94: 18, 19, ftn.
But na only God fit make am grow.		Only God can make it grow.
Dem dey use our book dem, our meeting, assembly, and convention dey tell us things wey we go do.		The Governing Body provides the direction given in our publications and at our meetings, assemblies, and conventions.
Dem put me for where dem dey print our book dem and I learn how to use one printing machine wey dem dey call flatbed press.		I was assigned to the printery and learned to operate the flatbed press.
E dey always sweet us to go meeting for Kingdom Hall, assembly, or convention.		We all enjoy attending our Christian meetings as well as assemblies and conventions.
E know sey if e allow another thing become the main thing for im life, that one mean sey e don reject God.		He knew that false worship, including devotion to material riches, would be a denial of " the true God above. "
E sweet me to preach for that kind place wey people dey gree hear our message. '		It is such a joy to preach in this responsive territory. "
E talk sey: ' I be person wey get flesh, wey dem sell give sin.		He wrote: " I am fleshly, sold under sin.
E use all im mind and power take preach.		He too was one of the anointed and had outstanding zeal for the ministry.
For organization, we get many wise people wey we fit make friend with.		In his organization, we have many wise ones with whom we can walk.
For dem to put law about this matter show sey e dey happen. "		The necessity for a law on the subject suggests that the action was not infrequent, " says one Bible dictionary.
For example, elders fit tell mature sister to talk to young sister about how e dey dress.		For example, an older sister needs courage if she is asked to talk to a younger sister about modest dress.
For many years, the family don help many people wey pack go Japan to be servant.		Through the years, the family helped many immigrants to become servants of.
For many years now, people don dey use gold and silver do business. But prophet Ezekiel and Zephaniah talk sey this things go useless. ( Ezek. 7: 19; Zeph.		The prophets Ezekiel and Zephaniah foretold that gold and silver, staples of the commercial world through the centuries, will become worthless.
For this kind bad thing to dey happen for the area wey Rome dey control that time, e show sey wetin Jesus talk for that story dey happen for real life.		That such malicious mischief occurred within the Roman Empire in ancient times indicates that the situation Jesus described was true to life.
For where the platform dey, dem sofri fold one big cloth hang for up. As the talk start, you think sey anybody see the cloth?		As the talk began, did anyone notice the large cloth roll neatly tied and hung high overhead?
Four of my children wey their name na James, Jerry, Nicholas, and Steven na elder and dem dey serve well with their family.		Four of my sons - James, Jerry, Nicholas, and Steven - are serving faithfully with their wives and families.
HOW you think sey your life for be, if to sey Bible no dey?		CAN you imagine what your life would be like without the Bible?
Hopkinson ), Dec.		World Free of Violence Possible? No.
How the last vision wey Zechariah see take give Jew people hope?		Of what does Zechariah 's final vision assure God 's people?
How the people wey go follow Jesus rule dey make ' other sheep ' come sabi wetin good?		How do the anointed bring the " other sheep " to righteousness?
I de do things with sense pass people wey they senior me. And na because I de follow wetin you tell me. "		I act with more understanding than older men, because I observe your orders. "
I still dey like to preach with the brothers for the area.		I also enjoy preaching with the local brothers each week.
If the brother wey do wetin pain you still be elder or dem come even give am more work for congregation, you go happy?		If a brother who sins against you continues to serve as an elder or even receives additional privileges, will you rejoice with him?
If we de do things wey Bible talk and we de pray make God give us e spirit, we go fit get peace		David 's bad attitude affected his speech.
If we want learn how to talk better word wey go make people strong, na God and Jesus Christ be the best people to learn from.		God and Jesus Christ are the foremost examples of giving encouragement.
Instead, e use wetin dey God Law. ( Matt.		Instead, he held up the Scriptures as the final authority.
James and John no really understand wetin Jesus de try teach them.		James and John did not grasp this lesson.
na the Person wey high pass for heaven and earth. But e still dey carry body down. This one really dey touch us. ( Ps.		We are awed by the knowledge that, the greatest Person in the universe, manifests the appealing quality of humility.
Jesus answer say: " My Kingdom no dey part of this world. "		Jesus answered: " My Kingdom is no part of this world. "
Jesus no tell us whether wetin dem talk about the caretaker na true or lie.		Jesus does not indicate whether the accusation was valid.
MY PAPA name na Arthur Guest. When e be young man, e love God and e plan sey e go be pastor for Methodist church.		AS A God - fearing young man, my father, Arthur, hoped to become a Methodist minister.
Make they no fight?		Not even put up a fight?
Many people no know sey dem add wetin dey John 7: 53 - 8: 11 join some Bible. This part no dey the original Bible wey dem write.		Many people do not realize that the passage found in some Bibles at John 7: 53 - 8: 11 is an addition that was not part of the original inspired writings.
My character come change.		My outlook on life changed.
My pikin need to go school and get work before e baptize?		What about secular goals associated with education and a career?
Na Jesus Christ be their King. And na im be the person wey God talk about as " my servant David. " ( Ezek.		The precious unity described in Ezekiel is clearly evident each year as the anointed remnant and the " other sheep " gather to observe the Memorial of Christ 's death!
Na nine years e take preach for area wey many people no want study Bible.		For example, Brandon spent nine years pioneering in unresponsive territory.
Na we go choose the kind enjoyment wey we like, and papa fit still choose for family. But make we make sure sey Bible support wetin we choose.		Individuals and family heads are free to choose the recreation they prefer, as long as it consists of activities that are in harmony with 's guidelines expressed in Bible principles.
Noah, Daniel, and Job face some of the wahala wey many of us dey face today.		Noah, Daniel, and Job experienced many of the same kinds of problems we face today.
Nobody tell to arrange this kind place.		Designating these cities as cities of refuge was not a human idea.
One unbaptized publisher wey im name na Haykanush, wey dey stay for Armenia, see passport for near im house.		Haykanush, an unbaptized publisher living in Armenia, found a passport near her home.
Or you fit dey think sey, if you go tell elders wey fit help am correct wetin e do, you don be bad friend.		Or you might feel that reporting his sinful conduct to the elders, who could help him spiritually, would be a betrayal of your friendship.
Other things wey e suffer be sey, im mama wey e love well well die when dem put am for one prison wey dey Ravensbrck. Na one sickness wey dem dey call typhus kill am. E pain am to see sey im papa join sign one paper to show sey im no be Witness again.		Other severe trials faced by Rudolf were the loss of his beloved mother, who died of typhus in the Ravensbrck concentration camp, and seeing his father weaken in faith to the point that he signed a document in which he renounced being one of 's.
Paul tell the elders sey make dem give the person to Satan, this one mean sey dem go disfellowship am.		Paul had poured himself out preaching in that city, and he loved his fellow " holy ones " there.
People wey no dey fit control theirself dey cause wahala for theirself and other people.		Clearly, people who lack self - control are causing problems for themselves and for others.
So, e fit use any part of this world take deceive us.		He can use any part of it to disseminate his lies.
So we suppose dey encourage dem.		They, therefore, ought to receive encouragement.
Some brothers use money support the war and some even carry gun go fight, but dem no plenty.		Some brothers purchased bonds to provide financial assistance to the war effort, and a few even went into the trenches with guns and bayonets.
Some of dem no gree for wetin church dey teach. But if dem talk for where people dey, dem fit enter trouble and dem fit even kill dem.		On the basis of what they read in the Bible, some among them rejected the unscriptural creeds of the church, but it was dangerous - even fatal - to express such opinions openly.
The brothers and sisters for here like JW Broadcasting well well.		Our dear local brothers and sisters are very excited about JW Broadcasting.
The main thing wey dey Jesus mind na to do wetin go make God happy.		Jesus ' mind is focused on his relationship with God.
This character dey help us handle problem wey dey worry us. Na this one be the third way wey God dey take help us.		This puts at your disposal a third, powerful means to alleviate anxiety - the fruitage of the spirit.
This one go help dem fit do the work wey don give dem. Congregation dey really enjoy because this brothers ready to work. ( 1 Tim.		Courageous men who are willing to take on more responsibility are a blessing to a congregation.
This one na the fifth time wey Brother Russell dey go Ireland.		Russell, this was the fifth trip to Ireland.
This people wey be ' chief priest ' na the priest dem wey their level high pass other priest own. People wey don work as high priest before still follow for ' chief priest. ' - wp16.1 - E, p.		The expression " chief priests " evidently refers to principal members of the priesthood, including former high priests who had been deposed. - wp16.1, p.
This topic talk about our 2018 yeartext. E still talk about why we need to allow to give us power, and how e go take do am.		This article discusses our yeartext for 2018 and shows why we need to give the opportunity to strengthen us and how he will do so.
We need to help our children and other Bible student do all the things wey we don talk about.		As we assist our children and other Bible students to take the essential steps, we should bear in mind that genuine discipleship includes baptism.
We write dem put for the box wey person fit use scissors cut comot, come put am for inside im Bible so that e fit use am when e dey read Bible.		The article provided a number of suggestions and included a box that could be cut out and kept in the Bible for reference.
Wetin Bible talk about correction?		How is discipline often presented in the Bible?
Wetin Jesus disciple suppose preach?		What should be the message of the preaching work?
Wetin apostle Paul write give Hebrew Christian show sey, even though sey dem suffer, dem still fight well well for their faith. Dem do am, to make happy so that e go bless dem.		The apostle Paul wrote to Hebrew Christians that they " endured a great struggle along with sufferings, " as they sought 's approval and blessing.
Wetin be ' Meroz, ' and why dem swear for am?		What was " Meroz, " and why was it cursed?
Wetin be the " useless things " wey we no go put hand?		What are the " dead works " that we should avoid?
Wetin dem do make life sweet us and we don get chance to help other people learn about. '		It has enriched our lives and broadened our opportunities to help others get to know. "
Wetin dey help dem? ( 1 ) Dem dey pray, ( 2 ) dem dey copy other people example for Bible, and ( 3 ) dem dey draw body near brothers and sisters for congregation.		Prayer, meditation on examples found in the Bible, and close association with 's people are helping millions right now to gain comfort in all their trials.
Wetin you suppose do?		What should you do?
When Ahab hear wetin sey im and im family go suffer, e carry body down, come repent and e show sey e no happy for wetin e do.		When Ahab learned of 's adverse judgment, " he ripped his garments apart and put sackcloth on his body; and he went on a fast and kept lying down in sackcloth and walking despondently. "
When I dey 18 years, Bud Miller and im wife Joan, come be our new circuit overseer.		By then I was 18 years old and facing the question of military service.
When brothers and sisters see sey you get better mind to help people, dem go draw you near body. "		When the brothers and sisters see someone new with a self - sacrificing spirit, they take you in. "
When the people wey gather hear am dey talk, dem come dey shout: ' Na god dey talk, no be human being! '		His adoring crowd shouted: " A god 's voice, and not a man 's! "
When we dey problem, we dey remember to support as our King?		Can we look past our own problems and see the real issue?
When we start, na me and Lennart Johnson dey do almost all the work.		At first, Lennart Johnson and I did most of the work.
Where that kind thing for dey pain pass na, if na brother or sister for congregation do us.		How much greater the pain is if it is caused by a fellow Christian!
Why e good make we teach our Bible student how to do personal study?		Why should we build in Bible students a strong desire to study the Scriptures personally?
Why e good make you run go meet make e help you?		Why do you want to take refuge in?
Why e good to dey look stranger with better eye?		Why might we need to adjust our view of strangers?
Why we put this kind law for our website?		Why is such a restriction needed?
paragraph 1 ) No be im real name be that.		paragraph 1 ) The name has been changed.
Praise! Because the people use their mind support the work. ' - JUDG.		Because of the people 's volunteering, praise! " - JUDG.
But wetin love really be, how we go take get am and how we go take dey show am everyday?		But just what is love, and how can we develop it and show it every day?
When we help dem sabi brothers and sisters well for congregation, we dey follow ' dey protect strangers. ' - Ps.		By making them feel fully accepted in the congregation, we have the privilege to share with in " protecting the foreign residents. " - Ps.
Today, we no fit see Jesus.		We, however, cannot observe him directly.
This one go touch the pikin for mind.		This kind approach could touch the child 's heart.
Today, we get people wey dey follow us serve, and this people dey help us hold tight. But Noah no get people like that.		And unlike us today, he did not have a congregation of fellow worshippers - evidently not even his siblings - to turn to for spiritual support.
But Bible help us know sey dey select the things wey e want know.		But the Bible shows that he is selective when it comes to foreknowing future events.
So, we dey sure sey go bless everybody wey dey im side.		So we can be sure that he will reward us and all who uphold his sovereignty.
And when person show sey e get faith for Jesus, God go forgive am.		Acquiring faith in Jesus, in turn, makes it possible for an individual to gain forgiveness of sins.
Holy spirit fit help us comot hand for bad thing and e fit give us the mind to preach.		Holy spirit can help us to resist temptation and to preach boldly.
Wetin Zechariah see for the last vision?		How does Zechariah 's eighth vision begin?
Wetin the ' flesh ' mean for Romans 8: 4 - 13?		At Romans 8: 4 - 13, in what sense did Paul use " flesh "?
Which three question we go talk about?		What questions will we consider?
Why people for apostle Paul time know wetin e mean for person to be slave and for person to dey free?		Why were people in the apostle Paul 's day concerned with slavery and freedom?
As people dey learn about God, dem dey see why e good for dem to follow wetin e talk.		As people learn about God, they see the need to conform to his standards.
After the convention, Sister Odessa Tuck wey dey 18 years that time, come ready to do like prophet Isaiah wey hear as ask sey, ' Who go go? '		Odessa Tuck, who at the time was 18, left the convention determined to answer the call " Who will go? "
Another thing wey papa and mama fit do na to dey teach their pikin their own language even if dem dey congregation or group wey dey use another language.		On the other hand, some parents have found ways to instruct their children in their native tongue while attending meetings at a foreign - language congregation or group.
Apostle Paul dey the meeting, and e preach reach midnight.		Paul spoke till midnight.
Apostle Paul talk about freedom for the letter wey e write.		The letters of the apostle Paul have much to say about freedom.
Apostle Paul tell Christian sey: ' Kill the different different part of una body where things like this dey: all sex matter wey no clean for God eye. ' ( Col.		The apostle Paul wrote to fellow Christians: " Deaden. your body members that are on the earth as respects sexual immorality. "
Because love us, we want make e rule us.		We will never desire life other than life under 's rightful and loving sovereignty.
Because of the fence, their enemy no fit enter anyhow. And dem still get place on top the fence wey watchman fit stand dey look everywhere.		The walls provided physical protection from invaders as well as elevated vantage points from which to watch the surrounding landscape.
Bible help Jesus.		God 's Word guided Jesus.
But even with that one, dem still dey hold tight. E good make we dey encourage dem. ( 2 Thess.		Also, Christians who remain faithful through persecution or illness need to hear encouragement.
But my family people, especially my sister Araceli, no want gree sey wetin I dey preach correct.		But my family, and especially my sister Araceli, insisted that what I believed was wrong.
Dem fit still be pioneers wey dem send come help your congregation.		Pioneers may be sent to assist in your congregation.
Dem no talk about other character wey Christian fit get like this.		No other Christian quality is mentioned as often.
E come beg Janet, and dem dey serve together again.		She apologized, and they are once again serving as a team.
E dey wait for the time when e go finally clean the dirty wey Satan don put for im name.		He is " waiting patiently " and " keeping in expectation " of the time when his name will be fully sanctified.
E fit no too get time for im husband like before.		The new mother 's time and attention may be focused on caring for her child.
E no tey before Jim come be elder again.		In time, Jim was reappointed an elder.
E really clear for the woman eye sey answer im prayer.		Undoubtedly, she did feel that way.
E talk for about one hour thirty minute, and na so dem dey hear im loud voice for everywhere for the hall.		For about an hour and a half, his powerful voice reverberated through the hall as he discussed how the prophets of old had fearlessly announced the coming Kingdom.
E tell sey e dey happy as im daughter talk sey e want give am im life. "		He told that he was so happy about his little girl 's decision to dedicate her life to Him. "
Even the weather for there different from our own!		And, yes, the weather was different for sure!
Felisa: Na for Spain I grow and my family no too get money.		Felisa: I grew up in a humble family in Spain.
For book of Matthew, Mark, Luke and John, dem write sey after Joseph comot Jesus body from the pole, e use fine cloth cover am, come put am for im own grave. ( Matt.		All four Gospels record that after Jesus ' body was removed from the stake, Joseph wrapped it in fine linen and laid it in his own tomb.
For example, e get one time wey one young man for Western Europe dey go our meeting.		For example, years ago a young man in Western Europe began attending Christian meetings.
For example, some papa and mama fit dey fear to tell their children make dem pioneer, preach for where publisher no too many, work for Bethel, or join build Kingdom Hall and Assembly Hall.		For instance, some parents may hesitate to encourage their child to pursue a career of pioneering, to serve where the need is greater, to enter Bethel service, or to work on theocratic construction projects.
For example, we dey see, hear and taste the things wey e make. still dey take care of us.		Consider, too, how he cares for us and teaches us the best way of life.
For the topic " Question From People Wey Dey Read Our Book " for November 15, 2014 Watchtower ( for English ), dem tell us the new way to choose person as elder or ministerial servant.		Questions From Readers " in The Watchtower of November 15, 2014, outlined an adjustment in how elders and ministerial servants are appointed.
For there, I come dey think for my mind sey: " Who know wetin go happen to me again?		There, I thought: ' Who knows what might happen to me next?
God dey do anything wey e promise. - Isa.		God 's word of promise never fails. - Isa.
If we want near more more, and if we want make im spirit continue to dey direct us, we need to check ourself well.		To improve and maintain our spirituality, we need to analyze ourselves honestly.
Im papa and mama na Witness, but see wetin e talk, " Study and preaching no dey sweet me. "		Although he grew up in a Christian family, he admitted, " I found the meetings and field service boring. "
dey give wicked people chance to change now. ( Isa.		Right now is giving wicked people an opportunity to change.
fit make im Word dey " hungry " you. ( 1 Pet.		He can help you to " form a longing " for his Word.
Jesus talk sey: " If anybody want follow me, make e no dey think about imself. Make e ready to suffer and continue to follow me. " ( Matt.		Jesus said: " If anyone wants to come after me, let him disown himself and pick up his torture stake and keep following me. "
Josephus study history about Jew people. E talk say Judas " make e country - people fight government, and e call them fear - fear people because them de pay tax to government for Rome. "		Jewish historian Josephus states that this Judas " incited his countrymen to revolt, upbraiding them as cowards for consenting to pay tribute to the Romans. "
Make una wey be papa, no dey make una children vex anyhow so that life no go tire dem. '		You fathers, do not be exasperating your children, so that they do not become downhearted. "
Make we no forget sey no be our power we take dey do the work well. Na dey help us do am well because e no dey carry shoulder up.		Let us remember that it is 's humility and not our own ability that ' makes us great. '
Many times, na when person dey pray make God help am, one publisher go just come preach to am!		In many cases, publishers have called on individuals who had just been praying for help!
My mama surprise because of wetin e talk. But na so my mama take start to dey learn the truth for Bible.		Willie was one of 's, and this was my mother 's shocking introduction to Bible truth.
Na Catholic people full those place. Dem no like people wey no be Catholic. So na sense we take dey preach for the area.		Tension in the area was high, and we had to be very cautious and discerning when talking with people.
Na later I come know sey Brother Franz no dey see well. Na Brother Knorr dey read those books for am before.		I later found out that because of Brother Franz ' failing eyesight, Brother Knorr had been spending considerable time reading such material to him.
Other young people for the place come dey tell am to join their group dey do sport.		Other young people at the center urged him to join their sports club.
Paul travel go preach for different place. E preach for the country wey dem dey call Turkey now. E still preach for Greece and Italy.		Paul traveled far and wide in what is now Turkey, as well as in Greece and Italy, establishing Christian congregations among non - Jews.
Plenty young people and old people wey dey study Bible still dey do the same thing.		It is much the same with Bible students today, whether young or old.
SONG: 123, 86		SONGS: 123, 86
SONG: 61, 52		SONGS: 61, 52
So I no waste time talk sey, " Yes! "		I immediately responded, " Yes! "
So we dey sure sey go always do wetin e get for mind for us.		Just as his laws of creation never fail, will never fail us.
Some of dem no want make oppression, partial, and poverty, dey again.		People in many parts of the world want to be free from oppression, discrimination, and poverty.
Sometimes we go knock house wey white people de stay.		While we were working a black territory, we sometimes inadvertently knocked at a door of a white family.
That time na only our last born, Vitaly, dey with us for house.		By then, only our youngest son, Vitaly, remained at home.
The books help me learn the truth as I de grow.		Those Bible - based books had a role in shaping my life as one of 's.
The owner of the farm tell them sey: ' No be this money we gree sey I go pay una?		The winegrower replied: ' Did you not agree to the wage I offered?
The rest of us scatter go different different place. '		The rest of us were scattered. "
They show us fine example for the preaching work.		They took a zealous lead in the preaching work.
This one go show sey we dey copy wey love us and wey dey pity us. - Ps.		In this way, we imitate our loving and merciful Father,. - Ps.
This people wey go the war really different from the people ' wey dey ride fine horse, ' wey feel sey dem too big to join for the fight! Dem different from people wey ' dey sitdown for fine carpet, ' wey dey use two hand chop life.		How different they were from the " riders on tawny donkeys, " who were too proud to participate, and those " who [ sat ] on fine carpets, " loving a life of luxury!
To dey gentle with people and to fit dey control yourself dey good.		Think how practical and effective it is for you to display those qualities.
True - true, the love wey we get for people de move us make we continue the preaching work.		Neighborly love - what a worthy reason, indeed, to continue in our ministry!
True true, nobody wey dey think well go want serve Baal.		In fact, no reasonable person should be attracted to or attached to Baal.
We change some people name.		Some names have been changed.
We dey preach from house to house and some dey preach to their classmate for school.		You can do that in the ministry as well as at school.
We fit learn better thing from wetin Joseph talk and wetin e no talk. - Gen.		We can learn valuable lessons not only from what Joseph said but also from what he did not say. - Gen.
We no fit make the name of God holy pass as e dey.		We cannot make God 's name more sacred.
Wetin go do?		What will do?
Wetin Peter gain because forgive am?		How did Peter benefit from 's forgiveness?
Wetin dey that Bible verse go give human being hope, once dem understand am.		All was not lost for the human family.
Wetin we learn from wetin do Sodom and Gomorrah?		What do we learn from 's judgment of Sodom and Gomorrah?
When I hear sey dem need people for South Africa, I come fill form and dem invite me.		When I heard about the construction needs in South Africa, I applied and was invited to go.
When the real mama hear wetin Solomon talk, e pity for im pikin. E no want make dem kill am.		When Solomon put them to the test by ordering that the baby be cut in half, the real mother 's compassion was stirred.
When we dey preach, e good make we tell people about the Person wey arrange all this things well. - Rev.		In our ministry, can we draw attention to the Cause of this impressive order? - Rev.
Whether na " small thief " or " big thief, " thief na thief. We no want do anything wey go make people talk bad about.		We view it as an honor to live up to 's high moral standard, maintaining conduct that in no way brings reproach on his name.
Which warning dey Luke 21: 34, 35?		What warning do we find at Luke 21: 34, 35?
Why e be sey nobody sabi mold reach?		Why is the greatest Potter?
Why e dey good mek we no dey miss our meeting?		Why is it so important to be at our meetings?
Why e good to know where we suppose do reach?		For what reasons should we cultivate modesty?
Why we talk so?		Meditate on it.
You no need to prepare many things to show people sey you love dem.		Hospitality need not be elaborate.
How Jesus show say Christian no suppose to support any side for politics?		How did he demonstrate the need for God 's servants to avoid taking sides on political issues?
Hezekiah come use im sense.		In time, Hezekiah made preparations for a long siege.
[CONTENT_REMOVED]		See the box " When Studying God 's Word, Ask Yourself. " )
God show the kind power wey e get when e ' win Ethiopia people for Asa front, ' because Asa use ' all im mind worship till e die. ' - 2 Chron.		God displayed his great power and " defeated the Ethiopians before Asa, " whose " heart was complete with all his life. " - 2 Chron.
Because na holy God wey dey judge matter well, e value the life of person wey dem kill by mistake.		A just and holy God, he could not ignore even accidental bloodshed.
But still make sure sey the Law dey Bible.		Yet, preserved that Law for us in his Word, the Bible.
Wetin e good make we remember? PROPHET Isaiah and Habakkuk ask sey, ' Which time? '		Why can we be encouraged by the examples of faithful servants in the past?
Since animal no fit learn about, e clear sey prophet Isaiah no dey only talk about how animals go be for paradise.		Since animals cannot learn about, the spiritual fulfillment of this prophecy applies to people.
Na for the year 1943 before Jesus time na im the ' 430 years ' start, the time wey the promise wey promise Abraham start to work.		Those " 430 years " began when 's covenant with Abraham went into effect in 1943 B.C.E.
Na love dey make us get other Christian character, like faith.		Love embraces many essential Christian qualities, including faith.
People go die again?		And death?
The word wey dem translate as ' protect ' ( or, " guard " ) na word wey soldier dey use for Bible time.		The original - language word for " guard " was a military expression.
Make we see how full - time service ( like regular pioneer, Bethelite and people wey dey build Kingdom Hall ) fit make you happy well well.		Let us consider some aspects of full - time service that could make you very happy.
Wetin help one young brother change how e dey feel about work and wetin e gain?		How did one young man change his view of God 's service, and with what result?
Wetin apostle Paul talk show sey e really feel the kind pain wey sin dey cause.		The apostle Paul felt this pain and agony deeply.
AS TIME reach for one important meeting for Jerusalem, King David come gather all the prince, the people wey dey work for im court, and all the strong men.		IT IS time for a very important meeting in Jerusalem. King David has called together all his princes, court officials, and mighty men.
Abraham wait for 25 years before dem born Isaac for 1918 B.C.E. Abraham still wait for another 60 years before dem born im grandpikin, Esau and Jacob for 1858 B.C.E. - Heb.		Abraham then had to wait 25 years before his son Isaac was born in 1918 B.C.E., and he had to wait another 60 years before his grandsons Esau and Jacob were born in 1858 B.C.E. - Heb.
Amy talk how e quick sabi sey dem need more people to preach. E sey: " E no tey after I reach Ghana, we go preach for one small village. For the village, we come dey find deaf people.		Amy relates how she quickly became aware of a great need: " Shortly after arriving in Ghana, we preached in a small village and searched for deaf individuals.
And many young people dey learn from other servant of if dem follow dem go preaching and do other things together. ( Prov.		Further, many young people thrive under the influence of spiritually balanced companions who may, for example, accompany them in the ministry and share with them in wholesome recreation.
And na almost every weekend we dey stay there.		We stayed there most weekends, went in the ministry, and held Christian meetings.
Anything wey e tell us, na wetin go make life better for us.		Whatever he requires of us is for our benefit and ultimately results in our greatest joy.
Apostle Peter advise sisters wey don marry sey make dem dey respect their husband, ' so that if any of dem no dey serve God, dem fit change because of their wife character even if their wife no talk anything; because dem don see sey una dey live clean life and una dey respect dem well well. '		The apostle Peter counsels Christian wives to be in subjection to their husbands, " so that if any are not obedient to the word, they may be won without a word through the conduct of their wives, because of having been eyewitnesses of your chaste conduct together with deep respect. "
As I dey think about all the things wey don do for me, e dey make me want tell other people about am. The truth be sey, na the God wey " fit do everything. " - Matt.		My own experience moves me to continue loyally testifying about, with whom " all things are possible. " - Matt.
Ask yourself say: ' Which good thing fit come out of greeting?		Ask yourself: ' What can a greeting accomplish?
Because that time, Solomon ' still young and e never do that kind work before ' and the temple suppose ' big and fine well well. '		After all, the temple was to be " exceedingly magnificent, " and Solomon was at the time " young and inexperienced. "
Bible verse wey dem read for meeting, assembly, or convention don touch you like this before? - Neh.		Have you similarly been affected by the use of God 's Word at meetings, assemblies, and conventions? - Neh.
Brother Hughes tell us sey e dey hard to preach to Catholic people for where dem dey call Irish Republic.		Brother Hughes spoke of the difficulty in reaching Catholic people in the Irish Republic.
But, e get sometimes wey dem dey tell their member make dem go preach.		True, at times certain clergymen may endeavor to stir up some form of evangelism.
But Bible show sey to get faith pass to just ' believe sey we don see wetin we dey wait for. '		But the Bible 's description of faith involves more, as the next article will show.
But Witness no join kill anybody.		However, 's did not participate in that global slaughter.
But as e be sey all of us no come from the same place, this one fit cause wahala sometimes.		This diversity, however, can present issues that merit our serious consideration.
But many people for this world don see wetin better pass gold.		Yet, millions have discovered something much better.
But science people don see sey because of the things wey this IUD dem dey do, e go hard for the woman wey dey use am to get belle.		However, scientific evidence suggests that because of a number of mechanisms mentioned above, pregnancy rarely occurs with the use of such IUDs.
But since the hormone don affect the woman belle, the pikin go die because e no go see where stay.		That would end the pregnancy at an early stage.
Daniel talk sey, dem dey live the kind life wey people dey call big man life.		We led a so - called normal life, " relates Daniel.
Dem talk sey: ' One by one, e trowey some of our things wey we no need.		One by one, he threw away the few nonessential belongings we carried.
Dey allow God spirit control your mind and heart		Keep your mind and heart open to the influence of the holy spirit
E come tell me sey, " I know how many years you dey. "		I know exactly how old you are, " replied Izak Marais, who called me in Colorado from Patterson, New York.
E get one sister wey im name na Leigh. This question help am think well when something happen.		A sister named Leigh found that considering this question helped her to think before acting.
E really love too.		He was also very spiritually inclined.
FOR apostle time, many Christian dey stay for the place wey Rome dey rule. And Rome people like their law, the way dem dey judge matter, and the freedom wey dem get.		PEOPLE of the Roman world, among whom the early Christians lived, prided themselves on being champions of law, justice, and freedom.
For example, e fit be sey people for your new congregation no dey talk too much or dem dey talk well well.		For example, the brothers in your new congregation may be more reserved or more outspoken than you are used to.
For example, if person get something for mind, Bible no tell us say Satan and the demons get power to know.		For example, nowhere do the Scriptures indicate that they can read the mind or heart of an individual.
For example, make we check wetin dey Job 26: 7.		For example, consider Job 26: 7.
For our time, na Bible, holy spirit, and the congregation be the main things wey take dey mold im people.		molds his servants today primarily by means of his Word, his holy spirit, and the Christian congregation.
For person to arrange this Passover wey free Israel people and come make Jesus the Passover wey free us today, really touch me.		For someone to have thought of this arrangement for the Israelites and for it to be fulfilled in Jesus really impressed me.
For this topic, we go answer three main question.		In this article, we will answer three key questions.
How other people fit make us choose wetin dem want?		How might we give in to the danger of letting others choose for us?
I come tell the senior mother for the convent sey I no want stay for the convent again.		So I talked to the mother superior about this and told her that I wanted to leave.
I even throwey all the image wey I dey take dey worship.		I even got rid of all the religious images I had.
If we make friend with family wey come from another place, we go know sey e no easy for dem to dey do things like us.		By spending time with an immigrant family, we will better appreciate the extent of their efforts to adjust to our culture.
If you no want make Devil spoil your mind, you must know wetin im lie lie fit cause and how you go take protect yourself		To win the battle for your mind, you must recognize the danger that propaganda poses and protect yourself from it
If your answer na yes, we give you hand!		If so, you are to be commended.
Im name na Demetrius. E no be like Diotrephes.		Demetrius has been well - reported - on.
Jabin, wey be king for Canaan, don too suffer Israel people for 20 years.		The Israelites had been " harshly oppressed " by Canaanite King Jabin for 20 years.
don talk sey e go do better thing for people wey dey serve am well, so e want make we do things wey go make am bless us.		God has obligated himself to reward his faithful servants, so he invites us to reach out for his blessing.
people dey happy for the good things wey dem fit do because na dey help dem.		s servants rejoice at the good things they can do because they are being guided by.
Make we still talk about one sister for England.		Or consider the case of a sister in England who very much wanted a child but whose hopes in that regard had not been fulfilled.
Make your pikin see sey you really trust.		Let your children see how real is to you.
Many of us like the work wey we dey do for and we fit no want stop am.		Many of us love the work we do and would like to continue doing it indefinitely.
NO BE today people start to give wetin dem value, because na part of wetin dem dey use worship am.		SACRIFICES have long been an important part of true worship.
Na im give us everything wey we get.		Everything we have is from him.
Na true sey people like all this things and dem dey enjoy am. But all this things no fit really make person happy.		All those things can bring pleasure, but our life has a higher purpose that brings lasting happiness.
No be only government Satan and demons de use. They still de use fake religion and the business of this world to fool the whole world. ( Rev.		Satan and the demons use not only governments but also false religion and the commercial system to mislead " the entire inhabited earth. "
No put person life for danger because of hurry hurry or money.		Our just God always does what is right and proper.
Or e fit dey hard you to forgive person wey do you bad.		Or someone may have hurt you in the past, and you find it hard to forget.
PEOPLE WEY COME MEMORIAL ( 2016 )		MEMORIAL ATTENDANCE ( 2016 )
Paul talk something about this Son wey love well well, e sey: ' Na because of am [ Jesus ], the ransom come free us with that one blood, yes, our sin don comot, because im [ ] favor dey surplus well well. '		Speaking of 's beloved Son, Paul wrote: " By means of him [ Jesus ] we have the release by ransom through the blood of that one, yes, the forgiveness of our trespasses, according to the riches of his [ 's ] undeserved kindness. "
Remember sey, no be only cunning - cunning Satan fit use deceive us.		Keep in mind, though, that Satan 's propaganda is not always subtle.
Small time after that meeting wey dem do for 49 C.E., Peter go Antioch wey dey Syria.		Shortly after the meeting in 49 C.E., Peter visited Syrian Antioch.
Something happen for the congregation wey dey Antioch for Syria wey show whether dem really dey carry body down and ready to forgive.		The first - century Christians in Syrian Antioch faced a situation that tested not only their humility but also their willingness to forgive.
That time, the Church don dey teach lie lie.		Historians refer to pagan Rome as having been " Christianized " in the fourth century.
That time, their shoe be like sandal and e get three part. They make this three part with leather.		His sandallike boots were made of three layers of leather fastened together that gave him an excellent foothold.
The Romans dey make sure sey the people dey follow the law.		The Romans took an interest in suppressing outlawed activities and in bringing to justice any who caused disturbances.
The things wey happen, and the hope wey other people wey serve for Bible time get, suppose make us get hope. How?		How should those events and the convictions held by other faithful ones of the past affect your hope?
The two stick go come be ' one stick ' for Ezekiel hand. - Ezek.		The two sticks were to become " just one stick " in Ezekiel 's hand. - Ezek.
This hope go help us endure any wahala.		We need this hope to endure persecution.
This plan really help people wey dey Britain prepare for the war wey dey come for front, that time.		The renewed focus on Kingdom service strengthened 's people to face the challenging war years that lay ahead.
This promise show us how and all the good angel for heaven take love theirself. Dem be like wife.		thus gave humans a glimpse of the special relationship that exists between him and the vast throngs of righteous spirit creatures serving him in heaven.
To answer this question dem, we go talk about three things wey fit make am hard for us to know where we suppose do reach. And we go see how we fit use sense follow this three things. - Prov.		To answer these questions, we will consider three common situations that can put modesty to the test, and we will see how we can act wisely in each case. - Prov.
We de talk with people wey they get high position for government with respect, even if they no like our preaching work.		We also contribute to peace when we approach government officials in a respectful way - including those who may oppose our work.
We dey greet new people when dem come our meeting?		Are we warmly greeting newcomers when they arrive at the Kingdom Hall?
We go answer this question for inside this two topic.		These two articles will consider those questions.
We go fit wear that new character for our body.		Developing such a new personality is within our reach.
Wetin this brother do?		What did this brother do?
When day break, dem come dey look for something wey go make their mind come down.		In the morning, they looked for some spiritual encouragement.
When that one happen, many Jew people for other place go come back to their country.		When that occurred, millions of Jews scattered abroad would return to their homeland.
Which kind plan you suppose get for mind?		Where should you be headed?
Who be this person?		How so?
Why? Because e really love you.		When you face hardship, wants you to feel secure because he has a strong attachment to you.
Why e no good make we dey vex anyhow, and wetin Bible tell us make we no do?		What makes anger so dangerous, and what warning does the Bible give?
You start am, e no start and mechanic no dey for where the motor for spoil.		Everywhere you look, it is dark.
David use im life serve God well.		Overall, David 's life course was one of faithfulness.
don give us this chance because of im Son, and na ' because of am the way dey free and we get this free mind to talk and we no dey fear because we believe am. '		has afforded us this privilege through his Son, " by means of whom we have this freeness of speech and free access with confidence through our faith in him. "
When we dey show sey we like peace and we get open mind, e show sey we get the sense wey God dey give.		By displaying a peaceable and reasonable spirit, we give evidence that we have acquired godly wisdom.
We don dey the domot of God Kingdom.		We stand at the threshold of the promised new world.
We dey happy sey because Jesus die, we and God fit settle, come be friend.		Happily, Christ 's sacrifice makes reconciliation with God possible.
No be small sacrifice Jephthah give.		accepted Jephthah 's great sacrifice and blessed him.
Wetin to ' dey put mind for the spirit ' no mean?		What is not meant by " setting the mind on the spirit "?
favor dey rule us?		by undeserved kindness?
So how Noah take hear about?		How did Noah hear about?
Story About People Life - Fit Do Everything		Life Story - All Things Are Possible With
All of us for the whole world get one mind, we dey live clean life and we get better hope. This things dey make us happy.		They also enjoy a united brotherhood, a wholesome lifestyle, and a happy hope.
One brother don pioneer pass 40 years, e name na Hanne, e talk say: " After I preach finish, the way my heart de glad, de give me power make I no tire to serve. "		Notes Hanne, a pioneer for over 40 years, " The joy I always feel after I have been in the ministry stimulates me to continue in 's service. "
Support Only God Kingdom		Maintain Your Neutrality in a Divided World
Simple Life Don Make Dem Happy		The Joy of Leading a Simple Life
This kind young people go fit choose well, even when their papa and mama or other big people no dey with dem. ( Phil.		They demonstrate that they are progressing toward maturity by making wise decisions - even when their parents or other adults are not watching.
ALL OF US BE LIKE ONE FAMILY: We love ourself and we dey show am. No matter the congregation wey we go for this world, brothers and sisters go welcome us well.		AN INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD: Because of our love for one another, we know that no matter what congregation we may visit throughout the earth, the brothers and sisters will warmly welcome us.
After Solomon die, na im pikin Rehoboam come be king.		After Solomon died, his son Rehoboam became king.
And that time, the overseer for the branch office come dey do bad. So dem come comot am put another person.		Meanwhile, the branch overseer engaged in unscriptural conduct and had to be replaced.
And we no want make this kind thing happen to us.		These are strong words!
Another thing be sey, the bad thing wey we choose fit make other people stop to serve and e fit even cause wahala for inside congregation.		Moreover, a poor decision could injure others spiritually by disturbing, or even stumbling, them or by disrupting the unity of the congregation.
Apart from sey dey bless im people today, e go still bless dem for future with many better things and dem dey wait for that time. ( 1 Tim.		Besides enjoying rich spiritual blessings now, God 's faithful servants eagerly look forward to even greater blessings in the future.
Apostle Paul preach well well to show sey e value life.		The apostle Paul did that by giving a thorough witness.
As we see for psalm 119, how God word take help the person wey write am?		As reflected in Psalm 119, what effect did God 's Word have on the writer of the psalm?
Because I no gree, dem beat me and dem use their stick flog me.		When I refused, they beat me with their fists and a wooden baton.
Before dem come serve, dem dey serve other god, dem get how dem take dey do things for their country and dem get how dem take dey behave.		They had different religious backgrounds, customs, and sensibilities.
Bible talk sey: ' Love dey patient and e get good mind.		God 's Word says: " Love is patient and kind.
But, e good for papa and mama to think well about wetin e mean to make disciple.		However, parents can benefit from reflecting on what it means to make a disciple.
But e die about 69 years before dem born Noah. - Gen.		However, " God took him " some 69 years before Noah was born. - Gen.
But e no easy make the apostles remove partial from their heart.		It was not easy, however, for the apostles to put aside their prejudice.
Check page 10 - 12 for this topic " You Can Learn Another Language! "		See the article " You Can Learn Another Language! " in Awake!
Dem come see sey e get Parkinson disease ( one sickness wey dey make person shake ).		He was diagnosed with Parkinson 's disease.
Dem no suppose do this work because of money or because dem want build big big house.		It should not be to collect money and construct elaborate buildings.
Dem sell their old motor for me for $ 25, the same price wey dem take buy my own wey don spoil.		They had an old car that they sold to me for $ 25, exactly what I had been paid for my wrecked one.
Dem treat brothers anyhow so that dem go talk the name of other brothers wey dey conduct meeting. Because of that one, brothers no come dey call each other with their papa name.		Brothers were particularly mistreated in an attempt to get them to reveal the names of those conducting meetings.
E be like sey na King Hezekiah house e dey take care of.		Sadly, though, he became proud, seeking his own glory.
E clear sey, na and Jesus use Brother Russell that time.		Clearly, at that pivotal time, Brother Russell was used by and the head of the congregation.
E fit be when condition change.		It could be when the prevailing circumstances change.
E get another sister, wey im name Reylene. E come from Philippines.		Reylene, from the Philippines, had a different challenge.
E go still help dem fit dey preach to people wey dey speak other language.		It may also open opportunities for them to expand their ministry.
E good well well to teach your pikin why dem suppose follow wetin dey Bible.		It is particularly important that you impress on your children the value of Bible principles.
E mean sey this stone go really get value well well, no be so?		Can you imagine how precious that pearl was to him?
E no easy for me to change, but now I dey happy pass before, and my life don make sense. "		Making changes was not easy, but I became happier and found real purpose in life. "
E no get wetin dey make person happy pass when e dey do wetin want, and e know sey wetin e dey do dey make God happy.		True and lasting joy comes from doing God 's will, from knowing that we are pleasing the Supreme One.
E no go produce another plant.		Does it bear little wheat stalks?
E really pain David sey im own pikin and other people wey e trust don leave am.		David felt deeply hurt because of being betrayed by his own son and by some whom he had trusted.
E tell dem sey: ' Build different different house and stay inside.		He said: " Build houses [ in Babylon ] and live in them.
Even though sey 430 years pass, that one no make forget wetin e promise. - Gen.		The passing of 430 years did not diminish 's determination to do so. - Gen.
For 1949, we go one convention for where dem dey call Sioux Falls for South Dakota.		Brother Grant Suiter was the visiting speaker at a convention in 1949 at Sioux Falls, South Dakota.
For example, Bible tell us wetin fit make us continue to get one mind for congregation. E sey make we ' dey use all our mind forgive each other, ' and make we dey quick settle matter. ( Col. 3: 13, 14; Matt.		For example, in the matter of maintaining unity with your brothers and sisters, the Bible encourages you to continue " forgiving one another freely " and to be quick to resolve matters of dispute.
For example, one brother wey suffer many problem after im wife die, talk sey: " I learn sey person no fit choose the kind problem wey e go get, when the problem go come and how many times e go get the problem.		After one brother lost his wife in death and he faced other painful circumstances, he said: " I learned that we cannot choose our tests, neither their time nor their frequency.
For my mind, e don cut the call.		One of the others said good - bye, and I thought he was off the line.
Give example wey show why e good to know wetin time be and wetin dey happen for where we dey.		Illustrate why it is important to be aware of what time it is and what is happening around us.
How Bible fit make our mind come down?		How can God 's Word bring us inner peace?
How our preaching work take dey help people?		What important opportunities does our preaching work offer?
How your preaching fit be like dew?		In what ways can our Christian ministry be like dew?
I come talk sey I go pioneer.		I then made the pioneer ministry my goal.
I de help my neighbor? '		Do I take the initiative to be helpful to others? '
I dey try to do wetin God want make I do?		Am I genuinely seeking to do God 's will?
If organization tell Branch Committee or Country Committee, circuit overseer, and congregation elders sey make dem do something, wetin dem go do?		What should members of Branch Committees or Country Committees, circuit overseers, and congregation elders do when they receive direction from God 's organization today?
If dem go collect paper to end the marriage when e be sey their husband or wife no go sleep with another person, dem no get right to marry another person.		A legal divorce not based on sexual immorality would not free one to remarry.
dey do wetin e talk, e dey carry the load wey dey heavy us from us.		As said, he takes your burdens away and puts them far away from you.
go bless us and make our tomorrow better. - Deut.		Fulfilling our promise is for our own good; our faithfulness leads to a secure future. - Deut.
help Jephthah win, but the first person wey come welcome am na im only pikin.		It so happened that it was his daughter, his only child, who came out to celebrate his victory with him.
Jesus come die for our sin. Na im make us dey get peace of mind and our mind no dey worry us.		As our Ransomer, Jesus cleanses our consciences and gives us inner peace.
John talk sey: ' Na because of im name dem travel. '		John said: " It was in behalf of his name that they went out. "
Joseph na person wey serve well. Even though people wey no dey serve treat am anyhow, na wetin im own brothers do am na im pain am pass.		Joseph, a faithful servant of, experienced injustice, not only at the hands of outsiders but also, more painfully, at the hands of his fleshly brothers.
Like Jesus, we self go fit do wetin good if we let direct us.		If we are to make wise decisions, as Jesus did, we must rely on for guidance.
Like Nehemiah, wetin elders fit do to make the hand of brothers and sisters strong?		Like Nehemiah, how can elders strengthen the hands of those in the congregation?
Louis and Perrine na husband and wife, and dem don pass 30 years. Dem pack from France go Madagascar.		Louis and Perrine, a couple in their 30 ' s, moved from France to Madagascar.
Make we talk about am.		Let us see.
Many people like this plan because e go help dem sabi preach pass before.		This renewed emphasis on the ministry thrilled many.
My faith for come dey strong and I come dey believe Bible well well.		My faith in and in the Bible began to grow, and I felt much happier.
Na better thing e be as allow us to dey support im work today.		dignifies us with the opportunity to support the grand work taking place today.
Na so we self dey do today.		Our brothers and sisters in the first century had high regard for those appointed to take the lead, and we feel similarly today.
Na this one go make your plan get head pass. So, make you dey study Bible well. Dey think well about wetin you dey study, and try dey answer question for meeting.		So be diligent in your study of God 's Word, meditate deeply on its meaning, and look for ways to express your faith at congregation meetings.
Na true sey I never study person wey later baptize. But other people don do am.		It 's true that I have never found anyone in the territory who progressed to baptism, but others have.
No be only Jesus condemn this bad thing wey Jew people dey do.		Jesus was not alone in condemning these abuses.
No worry or shake because, dey with you. ' - 1 CHRON.		Do not be afraid or be terrified, for. is with you. " - 1 CHRON.
Paul know sey e no easy for person to fight with character and sin wey dey im body.		Paul knew firsthand how difficult it can be to struggle against the desires and weaknesses of the imperfect flesh.
Remember, apostle Paul write sey: ' Make una make the hand wey don weak and the leg wey no strong, strong, and make una no stop to dey make straight road for una leg. ' ( Heb.		Recall that the apostle Paul wrote: " Strengthen the hands that hang down and the feeble knees, and keep making straight paths for your feet. "
Remember sey, God know where your power reach. And ' e no forget sey na sand sand you be. ' ( Ps.		God understands your limitations, ' remembering that you are dust. '
So na wetin we do go show if dem go listen to us or dem no go listen.		So the way we act can determine how they will respond.
So that we fit dey use all our heart sing, dem change some things for the old songbook. This one come make the song dem easy to understand pass before.		To help everyone to sing from the heart, some lyrics have been revised to improve clarity of thought and to remove words that are no longer in common use.
Stephanie continue to dey live simple life, e no spend money anyhow. This one help am fit save money wey e use as e go another country go preach.		At the same time, Stephanie kept her life simple, which allowed her to set aside funds to support herself while serving abroad.
Still give yourself time if you never start to dey enjoy your new congregation, as you first think sey you go enjoy am.		Allow more time to adjust than you originally expected.
That time we no know sey Ireland different from England.		We were not aware of how different Ireland was from England.
The elders wey dey Stephen congregation talk sey: " Stephen na quiet person, e no dey take im work play, and e no dey raise shoulder up. "		The elders of the congregation that Stephen attends note: " Stephen is a quiet, hardworking brother, and he has a humble attitude. "
The name of the songbook na " Sing Out Joyfully " to. Brother Lett talk wetin make dem change am. E sey Governing Body want make the word for our songbook be the same with wetin dey our new Bible.		Brother Lett explained that one objective of the revision was to bring the songs into harmony with the revised New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures.
The other one dey release hormone ( chemical wey dey work for body ). Na 2001 dem start to sell this one.		In addition, IUDs that release a hormone came on the market in 2001.
The paper dey their front and back. Na since 1936 Witness people start to use this style.		Two placards were attached at the shoulders and hung, one in front and one behind, an advertising method that had been in use by since 1936.
The things wey e talk for the first time come make people for Ireland dey hungry to hear more.		The interest stirred on the first trip evidently led to hundreds, sometimes thousands, turning out to hear him speak on later visits.
This one dey really make our mind come down! When that time reach, we no go dey ' cry with people wey dey cry. ' But, ' we go happy with people wey dey happy. ' - Rom.		Then, instead of having to " weep with those who weep, " all earth 's inhabitants will " rejoice with those who rejoice. " - Rom.
This one go make bless wetin we dey do.		Our actions thereby prove our sincerity and give something to bless.
Use All Your Heart Sing!		Make a Joyful Sound!
We go help dem see wetin mek us believe wetin we believe, so that dem fit choose by their self wetin dem go believe.		We encourage them to reason for themselves and make their own decisions.
We no get radio, television, and newspaper, so na from people mouth we take hear about the war.		We lacked radio, television, and newspapers; thus, we received news about the war only by word of mouth.
Wetin Bible talk about servant wey im husband or wife no dey serve?		What does the Bible say to Christians married to mates who are not worshippers of?
Wetin Bible talk sey be the only thing wey fit end marriage?		What does the Bible say about divorce and separation?
Wetin Jesus mean when e talk sey: ' No worry at all '?		What did Jesus mean when he said: " Never be anxious "?
Wetin dey Isaiah chapter 41 na something wey God tell Israel people.		The message in Isaiah chapter 41 was originally addressed to God 's ancient people.
When we know wetin dey cause our problem, e no go hard us to bear. Na so e still be for people wey don marry or wey don start to get children.		Understandably, we are in a better position to cope if we can identify the causes of our problems or tribulations.
Which better work dey front, but which work we fit do now?		What prospects lie ahead, and what can we do now?
Which mistake some people dey make about God favor?		What mistaken view might some people have of their sins?
Which things person wey be Christian fit do to make im life simple?		What are ways in which a Christian might simplify his life?
Why? Because the pikin use am show sey e value everything wey im papa and mama do for am.		Though the parents may not expect this, they may accept these gifts because it is a way for the child to show appreciation for all that they do for him.
Why Bethel work dey make young people happy?		How does Bethel service make young ones happy?
Why e good make we still dey change even if we don baptize?		After baptism, why should we keep making changes?
Why this work never stop?		Why has that work been so successful?
You dey do wetin you promise for prayer before you baptize or wetin you promise for your wedding day?		What about your dedication vow or your marriage vow?
You go like to do something wey e go make that your brother go back to the bad character wey e get before? ( 1 Cor.		Surely, none of us would want to contribute to a brother 's falling back into a course that would cause him great harm!
For God eye, Asa na better person wey do wetin E like.		In God 's eyes, Asa 's devotion was basically sound, satisfying divine requirements.
But wetin happen when Jehoshaphat begin make friend with Ahab wey no like?		But what happened when Jehoshaphat associated with Ahab, who had no love for?
But make we dey gather together with our brothers and sisters for our congregation meeting every time, the place wey we fit get God spirit.		Instead, we must regularly associate with fellow Christians at our congregation meetings, where God 's spirit is present.
Na the preaching work go make people for everywhere fit learn about Jesus sacrifice and how dem fit enter God Kingdom.		By means of the Kingdom - preaching work, people throughout the earth would have an opportunity to learn about the ransom and become subjects of God 's Kingdom.
Dem go be im children and e go be their Papa.		They would be his children, and would be their Father.
When we do everything wey we fit do to preach more, go bless us.		When we work hard to overcome obstacles to expand our ministry, we do experience 's blessing.
But na only after dem die, dem go fit go heaven.		For them to be thus rewarded, they would first have to die.
How James take explain wetin e mean to dey patient?		How does the disciple James illustrate one aspect of patience?
Wetin you learn from Deuteronomy 23: 21, 23 and Psalm 15: 4 about anything wey you promise God?		What do Deuteronomy 23: 21, 23 and Psalm 15: 4 impress upon you about making a vow to God?
Mal. 3: 5, 6 ) If we dey think about the problem wey dem dey face, for example people fit no like dem or dem no dey hear our language, e go make us dey do things wey show sey we dey feel for dem and we go treat dem well. - 1 Pet.		If we reflect on the challenges that they are facing, such as discrimination or the language barrier, we will look for ways to show them kindness and fellow feeling. - 1 Pet.
If we want make God help us, wetin we go comot hand from?		To benefit from God 's help, what should we avoid?
Apart from that one, the better things wey servant dey do dey make ' mind sweet ' am. - Prov.		Furthermore, the good things that are being accomplished by his servants make " [ 's ] heart rejoice. " - Prov.
Give example wey show why we suppose endure go reach the end. ( b ) Wetin we dey sure of, as the end of this world dey near?		Illustrate the importance of enduring to the end. ( b ) As we get closer to the end, what confidence can we have?
The Work Big No Be Small '		The Work Is Great "
For many years, people no know the truth wey dey Bible and dem dey fake religion hand. But since 1919, Governing Body don help people know many things for Bible.		After centuries of apostasy and spiritual darkness, can anything other than holy spirit explain the rapid increase in spiritual understanding since 1919?
People dey see the better work wey you dey do. - Read 1 Timothy 5: 25.		Fine works do not go unnoticed. - Read 1 Timothy 5: 25.
Later still use better word help Christians for apostle time. And na so still dey do today. - Read 2 Corinthians 1: 3, 4.		The early Christians had the same assurance, and so do God 's people today. - Read 2 Corinthians 1: 3, 4.
Apostle Paul talk sey: ' Jesus give some of dem as gift to be apostle. '		He [ Christ ] gave some as apostles, " wrote the apostle Paul.
As people wey dey follow Jesus, we know sey send Jesus to preach and Jesus still tell us sey make we go preach.		As disciples of Jesus, we are well - acquainted with our God - given commission.
As we pull the old character comot, e good make we wear the new character.		No. We must also clothe ourselves with the new personality.
As you show sey dem fit trust you for small thing, I go put many things for your hand.		I will appoint you over many things.
Because dem dey do this things, e come mean sey dem no dey free?		Would they feel a loss of freedom for having to do these things?
Before human being start to show sey dem get faith for Jesus sacrifice, God first dey look dem like enemy.		Before humans exercise faith in Jesus ' sacrifice, God considers them to be his enemies.
Bible talk sey go end war forever.		promises to put an end to it for all time.
Bible talk sey go gather ' plenty people from different country and place, and dem be people wey dey speak different language. '		As the Bible foretold, is gathering " a great crowd. out of all nations and tribes and peoples and tongues. "
But the truth be sey, when children no dey obey their papa and mama, peace no go dey family. And we know sey na different different family dey form community, and if wahala dey family, e fit affect community.		While such behavior is sometimes accepted and even encouraged in books, movies, and television programs today, disobedience undermines the stability of the most important social unit in society - the family.
But to dey shift baptism go front anyhow, fit spoil person friendship with.		Postponing baptism or delaying it needlessly could invite spiritual problems.
But we know sey the Jews no follow this one when the people for Sanhedrin kill Steven. - Acts 6: 8 - 15; 7: 54 - 60.		A well - known exception was when the members of the Sanhedrin tried Stephen and had him stoned to death. - Acts 6: 8 - 15; 7: 54 - 60.
Check the topic ' Dey Treat Stranger Well ' wey dey October 2016 Watchtower, pp.		See the article " Do Not Forget Kindness to Strangers " in The Watchtower of October 2016, pp.
Correct Christians go ever fit serve God as e want and nobody go trouble dem again?		Would true Christians ever be free to worship God openly and acceptably?
Dem don see sey na to serve better pass. ( Ps.		If you are a Christian parent, you no doubt look forward to the day when your son or daughter will get baptized. - Compare 3 John 4.
Dem ready to talk the bad things wey their people and even their king do. ( 2 Chron.		They were willing to point out the shortcomings of their own people, even their kings.
E come happen sey, na only leaders for religion and people wey go school fit read Bible. But no be all the leaders sabi read or write well.		As a result, only the clergy and some other educated people could read the Bible for themselves, although not all of the clergy could read and write well.
E fit ask elders to train am, and e go ready to do any work wey dem give am.		He can humbly ask the elders for training and make himself available to help in whatever way is needed.
E fit be sey shame dey catch am like me. "		That person may be just as shy as I am. "
E fit still be when another brother or sister dey with us, or for open place.		And if such a study is conducted, it would be wise to do so either in the children 's home with the parents or another mature Witness around or in a suitable public area.
E get one person wey come back to life and Bible don already talk am tey tey sey e go happen, and you believe am.		Actually, a resurrection that was promised centuries in advance did take place, and you put faith in it.
E get one time wey I follow three brothers go unassigned territory wey dey where dem dey call northern Ontario.		One year I joined three other brothers in witnessing to loggers living in unassigned territory in northern Ontario.
E go know wetin God get for mind for us and for this earth. And e go still know wetin God don do to save us.		Such faith moves the student to reject conduct that is displeasing to God and to come in line with 's righteous standards.
E no want mek person come tell am sey mek e be their church member. E no want mek dem deceive am.		He was afraid he would be asked to join a religion, and he did not want to be fooled.
E tell Hannah sey e don drink.		Imagine that!
E tell dem sey: ' Isaiah correct when e talk about una wey dey pretend, as dem write am, " Na their mouth this people take dey worship me, but their mind don comot for where I [ ] dey.		He told the first - century Jewish religious leaders: " Isaiah aptly prophesied about you hypocrites, as it is written, ' This people honor me with their lips, but their hearts are far removed from me [ ].
For 2014, my dear wife, Maria, come die.		Sadly, my dear wife, Maria, died in 2014.
For 2014 / 2015, dem do " Keep Seeking First God 's Kingdom! "		In 2014 / 2015, some of the largest stadiums in 14 cities around the world became home for the three - day " Keep Seeking First God 's Kingdom! "
For Bible, we see sey Jesus talk wetin touch people mind.		In God 's Word, we find Jesus ' soothing sayings.
For June 20, 1948, me and other people wey study Bible baptize for one river, and na my papa baptize us. Billie Nichols and im wife join us baptize.		There, on June 20, 1948, Father baptized me in a mountain stream, along with others who had accepted Bible truths, including Billie Nichols and his wife.
For example, e fit be sey strong sickness hold dem.		For example, they may be very sick.
For there, dem come tell me sey make I dig hole wey soldiers go dey hide as dem dey fight war.		There I was ordered to dig trenches for the soldiers.
For this topic, we go talk about why e be sey to go meeting good for us, why e fit help other people, and why e dey mek happy.		This article will encourage us to keep attending meetings by explaining why being at the meetings is good for us and for others and why it pleases.
For this two topic, we go see how Jesus teach e disciples make them dey as one, and remove partial wey e de divide people.		In these two articles, we will see how Christ taught his followers to become united and to overcome the prejudices that tend to divide.
For verse 32 e sey: ' Una Father for heaven know sey una need all this things, ' things wey we need to fit live life.		He explained in the preceding verse: " Your heavenly Father knows that you need all these things, " meaning the necessities of life.
How take dey use holy spirit and elder for congregation mold us?		How does mold us by means of holy spirit and the Christian congregation?
How e behave?		How did she react to her father 's promise?
How the love wey you get for take dey make you happy?		How has the love of God brought you happiness?
How we go fit copy their example?		How can we imitate these four outstanding contenders?
If we want dey study Bible well, wetin go help us?		How can we become better students of God 's Word?
Like Jesus apostles and disciples, we dey preach to people from house to house, for open place, and anywhere wey we see people.		Like the apostles and early Christians, we preach informally, publicly, and from house to house.
Make body dey sweet dem sey, the young men wey dem train, don dey do the work.		Appointed men should have great satisfaction when the younger ones whom they have trained become qualified to take on the work.
Make we come talk about three things wey fit make us stop to dey watch.		Let us consider three negative influences that could weaken our alertness and vigilance if we are not careful.
Make we do wetin we fit do to make sure sey the person wey invite us no regret am.		Let us do our utmost to make our hosts happy that they invited us.
Make we talk about nine things wey we fit do to show sey our love ' no be for mouth. '		Let us consider nine ways we can strive to show love that is " free from hypocrisy. "
Na God Word and im spirit dey help us ' pull the old character comot. '		With the help of God 's Word and his holy spirit, we work hard to " strip off the old personality. "
Na United State e from come. E talk sey: " When I dey seven years, many of my classmate for school come from Vietnam.		For example, Jacob, from North America, writes: " When I was seven, many of my classmates were Vietnamese.
Na im make Bible talk sey: ' As take dey use all im mind forgive una, make una still dey do like that. ' - Col.		Hence, the Bible counsels us: " Just as freely forgave you, you must also do the same. " - Col.
Na im make Jesus warn im disciple dem sey: ' But make una put eye for una body, so that too much food, too much drink, and wahala for life no go make una tire. ' - Luke 21: 34.		Thus, Jesus warned his disciples: " Pay attention to yourselves that your hearts never become weighed down with overeating and heavy drinking and anxieties of life. " - Luke 21: 34.
Na im make if we dey choose wetin good, we no go too get problem for life. But if we dey choose wetin bad, na so so wahala we go see for life. - Prov.		Hence, the ability to make good decisions can help us to live a relatively smooth, peaceful life rather than one that is full of chaos, controversy, and disappointment. - Prov.
No body dey use Bible or dey even talk about God or Jesus.		No one used the Bible or even talked about God or Jesus.
Number one, Paul talk say na " the thing wey [ e ] heart really want. "		He was moved by " the goodwill of [ his ] heart. "
One god fit still get other small small one.		Others were separate forms of a particular deity.
One of the people wey e invite, na one elder wey be oyibo.		Among her guests was a white elder.
Our house dey one small farm wey dey east for South Dakota.		We lived on a small farm in eastern South Dakota.
Person wey value im friendship with God no go follow people wey fit make am stop to be friend.		A godly person will not mix with those who could endanger his spirituality.
Plenty people no de listen, but them de watch us.		Granted, many people do not listen to us, but they do observe us.
Pray for am and tell to bless am.		In the meantime, pray for your brother; ask to bless him.
SONG: 52, 41		SONGS: 52, 41
Show me where e sey make you no pray to Mary.		Show me where it says that you should not worship Mary.
So, make elders today copy John example. Make dem tell brothers and sisters wetin go make dem strong so that dem no go tire to serve God. - Isa.		Likewise, elders today should follow John 's example by encouraging their brothers and sisters so that they will " not grow weary. " - Isa.
So if your pikin sabi another language pass your own, you no think sey e good to still try learn that language?		A child who communicates best in another spoken language deserves the same concern, would you not agree?
So we go bear anything wey come out from the mistake. ( Gal.		We may simply have to live with the consequences.
Some wey don old fit need who go dey carry dem go meeting and bring dem come back.		An elderly brother or sister may be in need of transportation to Christian meetings.
The other mountain dey show the Kingdom wey put for Jesus hand. ( Dan.		The other mountain represents the Messianic Kingdom in the hands of Jesus.
The people happy well well as dem start this work.		At that time the people were " shouting so loudly that the sound was heard from a great distance. "
They still tell them how they fit work together so that they go fit do family worship with their two children. ( Eph.		The elders also gave the couple some practical suggestions on how they could work together to have family worship with their two children.
This greeting dey Romans chapter 16.		We see this from Romans chapter 16.
This one go help us be part of that ' one group ' of sheep wey dey follow ' one shepherd. '		We need to meet together to become part of " one flock " and to follow " one shepherd. "
This one go help us when we get problem. We go come get the kind character wey other people fit copy. - Romans 12: 20, 21; Colossians 3: 13.		This will help us overcome difficult situations so that we too can be a good example. - Romans 12: 20, 21; Colossians 3: 13.
This one make Rachel get hot temper too. E talk say, " Even now, I still de struggle to control myself make I no de vex quick. "		She admits, " Even now, I struggle with feelings of anger because I was brought up in an angry household. "
True true, when Solomon wey be David pikin be king, Israel people really enjoy peace and bless dem well well.		Indeed, during the reign of David 's son Solomon, the nation enjoyed unprecedented peace and prosperity.
Uncle Alfred and my papa		Uncle Alfred and my father
We go let our pikin do the part of Witness wey dey answer question.		We would have the girls play the part of a Witness answering questions.
We go still learn why e be sey, blessing better pass anything wey we fit give.		We will learn why having God 's approval is worth any sacrifice.
We happy well well sey don give us this things! Some of dem na ( 1 ) im Kingdom, ( 2 ) our preaching work, and ( 3 ) the truth wey we dey learn from Bible.		How grateful we are that has given us spiritual treasures, which include ( 1 ) God 's Kingdom, ( 2 ) our lifesaving ministry, and ( 3 ) the precious truths found in his Word!
We hope sey our prayer go still help you small. "		We hope that our prayers will help a little. "
We really near each other now. "		We have a wonderful relationship. "
Wetin you dey see as you dey follow people talk?		What have you detected in your conversations with others?
Wetin you like about how Joseph take show strong mind?		What impresses you about Joseph 's courage?
When I dey interpret one talk for Brother Albert Schroeder		Interpreting a talk for Brother Albert Schroeder
When dem come back, dem ask me whether I go like to study Bible with dem. I sey yes.		When the women returned, they asked me if I wanted to study the Bible, and I said yes.
When we dey talk about problem for marriage, e get the one wey no dey quick come person mind.		When referring to tribulations associated with marriage, there is one that may not readily come to mind.
When we think about how and Jesus love us reach, e suppose make us love dem back.		Reflecting on their love should move us to love them in return.
Whether dem know or dem no know, dem dey show some of the better character wey God get.		Generally, they want to live with others in peace.
You fit talk sey you dey do everything wey you fit do to do wetin you promise?		Do you feel that you are living up to them to the best of your ability?
Young brothers, make una no run from work, no do oversabi, and dey respect the old brothers.		You younger brothers, accept responsibility, be modest, and maintain a respectful attitude toward the older ones.
I don old, and I no too well today.		I 'm not feeling well today.
Every month, congregation dey send wetin dem see for inside the box go the branch office wey dey their country.		Each month, congregations forward these contributions to the office of 's that serves their country.
If we no gree for Satan, e go run from us. ( Jas.		If we oppose him, he will flee from us.
Get am for mind sey you fit win Satan, im wicked world, and any bad thing wey you dey fight with.		Be assured that you can win the fight against Satan, his wicked world, and any sinful leanings.
[CONTENT_REMOVED]		See endnote. )
Nobody go ever die again because of Adam sin.		It completely cancels the condemnation inherited from Adam.
But Jephthah no treat dem the way dem treat am.		Jephthah refused to allow their cruel behavior to affect his attitude.
As Matthew 22: 39 talk - am, which other reason de make us preach?		What reason for preaching is mentioned at Matthew 22: 39?
Wetin person fit plan to do when e dey young?		What goals can be set at an early age?
The truth be sey, this world property go end one day. So, make we use dem now ' take make friend ' for heaven.		Yes, such riches will ultimately fail, so do not lose the opportunity to use them to " make friends " in heaven.
When you dey teach dem, dey look their age and how dem fit learn reach.		We can look for what is appropriate to their age and ability.
Apostle Paul write sey: ' If you don get wife, no think of how to leave your wife. '		The apostle Paul wrote: " Are you bound to a wife?
After some weeks wey Jesus die and wey dem bring am come life again, Peter tell many many people about Psalm 16: 10. Some of dem na Jew, and some no be Jew.		Over a millennium after that psalm was written and weeks after Jesus died and was raised, Peter spoke to thousands of Jews and proselytes about Psalm 16: 10.
Alisa na still another sister wey travel from Russia go Turkey. E dey around 30 years, and e talk sey: " As I come preach for this place, e don really make me know the kind person wey be. "		Alisa, a sister in her early 30 ' s from Russia, comments: " Serving in this kind of ministry has helped me to taste all his goodness. "
And which work dem give dem?		Now back to the chariots.
Apart from that one, e still encourage dem together. When dem carry Jew people go Babylon, tell dem wetin go make their mind come down.		In prophetic terms that would prove to be of comfort to the Jews held captive in Babylon, stated: " Do not be afraid, for I am with you.
As Noah see imself for this kind condition, e know sey e get some things wey e no fit do but e still get things wey e fit do.		In that situation, Noah recognized that there were some things he could not do but other things he could do.
As Ronald J.		As told by Ronald J.
As many of us no be elder for congregation, the first time wey we read this place for Bible, we fit think sey e no concern us.		Since the majority of us do not serve as elders, we might initially think that this passage would have little application to our own life.
Bible let us know sey go judge wetin everybody dey do. Even im own people wey do bad, e go judge dem.		While all of mankind are accountable to, his name people are even more so.
Bible tell us sey na good thing to know where person suppose do reach, but na bad thing to overdo.		The Bible contrasts modesty with presumptuousness.
But Bible no tell us how Job take learn some of this things about.		In some undisclosed way, Job learned many of those precious truths.
But I don pray for you so that you no go stop to get faith. When you come back, make your brothers strong. " - Luke 22: 31, 32.		But I have made supplication for you that your faith may not give out; and you, once you have returned, strengthen your brothers. " - Luke 22: 31, 32.
But even with all this wahala Witness people no shake. The newspaper still talk sey: " Everybody for the city see dem. "		La Nacin also reported: " The whole city saw them. men - and women - transformed into advertising ' sandwiches. ' "
But no be wetin dem do be that. Dem no want make people follow Jesus, the ' Person wey God choose to give us life. ' ( Acts 3: 15 ) So how dem go take get life?		Instead, they directed people away from " the Chief Agent of life, " Jesus, leading them toward a course that could end in eternal destruction.
But this time we don see sey we suppose change how we take sabi this vision.		In recent years, however, it has become clear that an adjustment needs to be made to this explanation.
But what if your conscience still dey worry you, even after don forgive you tey tey? Wetin you go do?		But suppose that long after a transgression was forgiven, you still have pangs of conscience over past mistakes?
But when person dey sing, e dey make am think, and e dey touch am. "		But a song makes you feel a thought. "
But you think sey e go surprise?		But would be surprised?
Daniel don almost reach 100 years and e go soon die.		Daniel was almost 100 years old and nearing the end of his life.
Dem want make people for congregation follow dem instead of the apostle dem.		Why? Those selfish ones were seeking prominence.
E beg for prayer sey make help am and e still study Bible well well.		Kevin made needed changes through earnest prayer and intense Bible study.
E fit come vex well well for me! "		His reaction might be terrible! '
E give am times two of wetin e get before. And still add 140 years join im life. ( Jas.		When the trial was over, gave Job double what he had before the trial began, as well as an added 140 years of life.
E no mean sey nothing fit worry person wey dey serve God.		Some anxiety may be caused by a person 's past actions or failings.
E still talk about the kind work wey endurance go finish for our life.		It also explains the work that endurance must complete in each of us.
E still talk say: " I want help black people get their right back because we don too suffer plenty things.		I wanted to champion the rights of black people, since we had suffered so much injustice.
E talk about ' Matthew wey be tax collector '; ' Simon wey dey make leather '; and ' Luke, the doctor wey dem love. ' ( Matt. 10: 3; Acts 10: 6; Col.		It speaks of " Matthew the tax collector "; " Simon, a tanner "; and " Luke, the beloved physician. "
For Bible, some people really do bad things, but after, they do wetin make God bless them.		Some in Bible times enjoyed his approval even though they had formerly committed grave sins.
For Jephthah pikin to fit do wetin im papa promise, e go use all im life do only work for tabernacle.		To pay her father 's vow, Jephthah 's daughter had to serve full - time at his sanctuary.
For Memorial day, different different people for the world dey gather together as one, no matter the country wey dem come from, whether dem be black or dem be oyibo.		People of many nations and skin colors gather together in meeting places around the earth.
For the first topic, we go learn how we fit dey treat people wey come from another place wey dey our congregation, well.		The first article helps us to show genuine concern for those from a foreign background who attend meetings in our congregation.
For this kind matter, make we get the mind sey fit and e go help us choose wetin good.		In such areas, it is important to have full trust that can and does provide wise guidance.
For this topic, we go learn how we fit pull the old character, and why e good to quick do am. We go see sey person fit stop the bad things wey e dey do, even if e don go far.		In this article, we will consider how we can strip off the old personality, why doing so is urgent, and why change is possible no matter how deeply involved one may be in wrong practices.
For where!		Not at all!
Help old people or people wey dey sick.		Assist the sick and the elderly.
How e be sey na almost the same thing for person to know where e suppose do reach and to carry body down?		How is modesty related to humility?
How you think sey e go be for Jesus that time? Or, how you think sey e be for am to see im mama, im brothers, and im sisters dey cry? You no think sey e really pain am?		Imagine how the tenderhearted Jesus, perhaps just in his teens or early 20 ' s, had to deal with his own grief, as well as that of his mother, brothers, and sisters.
I change my life quick - quick because I know say the thing wey I de learn na the truth.		I made rapid progress, for I knew that I had found the truth.
I come quick call one brother wey answer the question. But I no even know if im answer correct. "		I quickly called on a brother who gave the right answer - at least, I hope he did. "
If we love our brothers and sisters and get good mind for dem, we no go jealous dem.		If we cultivate love and kindness in our heart, we will not easily become jealous.
If we want really thank God for im favor, which kind sin we go still comot hand from?		Why does appreciation for God 's undeserved kindness move us to avoid more than just serious sins?
dey use im holy spirit make our mind come down.		One way God helps us is by means of " the comfort of the holy spirit. "
don promise us sey e go help us endure, if we beg am mek e help us.		When we ask to help us endure, he promises to " make the way out. "
take the matter serious. So wetin e do to show sey Satan dey lie?		did not sweep aside that wicked accusation.
want make we dey feel for our brothers and sisters and help dem. E still want make we dey sorry for other people. ( John 13: 34, 35; 1 Pet.		Showing compassion for one 's neighbor and Christian brothers is a basic requirement of those who strive to imitate Jesus.
Jesus talk sey dem go punish this kind people well well. ( Matt.		In fact, Jesus said that those who are like hypocrites would be punished " with the greatest severity. "
Make we dey think about how things take better for dem.		As we contemplate how well things worked out for them, we too will be encouraged to show a waiting attitude.
Make we no force other people do wetin go make their mind judge dem, even if our mind no judge us ( Check paragraph 15 )		We can make personal decisions without imposing our conscience on others ( See paragraph 15 )
Many of the anointed brothers wey I work with don die.		Most of the anointed ones with whom I have worked are no longer here on earth.
Na Bible study I need. "		I need a Bible study. "
Na the suffer wey dem suffer Witness people na im make dem spread for Kyrgyzstan.		The persecution of 's led to their expansion in Kyrgyzstan.
Na when pikin don know wetin good and wetin bad for eye, e go hold am for wetin e do.		Accountability to is not founded on the act of getting baptized.
Parkin ), Aug.		Why Handwashing an Issue?, Aug.
Paul know say anybody fit change.		He saw a potential for good in people.
People dey suffer dem well well and dey talk bad about dem.		They were suffering opposition and were subjected to abusive speech.
People talk sey na one wall separate the two water.		Its water level was fed and maintained by drawing on the contents of an adjacent reservoir, which was part of the same complex.
Person dey change.		Change is possible.
Psalm 34: 10 sey: ' People wey dey put mind for side no go stop to get good thing. '		The psalmist sang: " Those seeking will lack nothing good. "
Real flower no be like rubber flower wey no dey grow.		Unlike an artificial plant, a living plant keeps changing.
SONG: 25, 18		SONGS: 25, 18
Sister wey im husband don die fit need person wey go help am repair something for house.		A widow may need help with some repairs on her home.
So, e ' no fit leave wicked thing to continue. '		Therefore, he " cannot tolerate wickedness. "
So, e good as no brother come welcome us and we no look for any of dem for there.		In view of this, it was best that we arrive without any welcome and avoid contact with the local.
So make we de show say we love, Jesus, brothers and sisters for congregation, and other people. And this one go really show say we be mature Christian. - Matt.		To the extent that we demonstrate love for and his Son, for our Christian brothers, as well as for others of mankind, we give evidence of our Christian maturity. - Matt.
The peace wey we go get no go end, and we go de treat other people the right way. - Isa.		When we do this, peace flows just like a river, and justice like the waves of the sea. - Isa.
The people for the village dey laugh am because dem think sey e no get sense.		Thinking he was mentally slow, the townspeople laughed at him.
The things wey I don face for life don help me de feel for people. I de want help them too, especially if them de struggle with problem.		My experiences have instilled in me empathy and compassion for others, especially those struggling with problems.
The truth be sey, na God give us power and better sense to fit dey do things, and the way we dey use wetin e give us concern am.		On the contrary, any goodness, talent, or strength that we possess is a trust from God, and he takes note of how we use it.
The vision still show sey go bless us if we dey try do things wey go make am happy.		If we diligently work to be the sort of people who have God 's approval and protection, we will not have to face a death - dealing curse.
The woman fit follow wetin the man talk. But, when any chance come, e fit tell dem about. This one go help the children learn about and the things wey e want make dem do.		While respecting his decisions, she can still express her faith in the presence of her children as opportunities arise, thus giving them moral training and knowledge about.
They go stand near one bus stop and de give people our magazines and books.		They take their place near a bus stop and offer our Bible literature to passersby.
Today, we still get better example of people wey dey allow God spirit direct dem. This people dey show sey dem dey copy Jesus example.		Aside from Scriptural examples, there are many modern - day examples of spiritually - minded individuals who have made great progress in reflecting a Christlike personality.
True - true, Paul greet e brothers and sisters. - Rom.		Yes, Paul readily greeted his brothers and sisters. - Rom.
True - true, whether person young or e don old, whether e don de serve for many years or e just start, you fit help them make them preach with all their power. - Lev.		Yes, your consideration and discernment can help young and old, experienced and less experienced, to preach the good news with zeal. - Lev.
True true, na this kind people go make this earth be paradise!		Truly, a population of such people will make the earth a paradise!
Try make you no be like one bus driver wey the only thing wey dey im mind na to quick reach the bus stop than to carry passengers.		Avoid being like the proverbial bus driver who is more concerned with arriving on time at every bus stop than with picking up passengers.
We dey give wetin we get because we love am, and because we value wetin e dey do for us.		We give to because of our love and appreciation for him.
We dey take this message play?		Do we value this message?
We marry for October 27, 1973 and na Brother Knorr give our wedding talk.		On October 27, 1973, we got married and were privileged to have Brother Knorr deliver our wedding talk.
Wetin talk for here show sey, e want make elders be people wey dey serve am well.		By giving this list of qualifications, reveals that he has a high standard for those who serve in an appointed capacity.
Wetin be the different - different part of the uniform wey Bible say make we wear?		What are the pieces of the spiritual armor?
Wetin go make body sweet old brothers sey young men don dey do the work wey dem first do?		How can older ones find satisfaction in handing over responsibilities?
Wetin help am?		What helped her to reach that conclusion?
Wetin we go gain if we dey pity people and help dem?		How does a compassionate person benefit himself?
Wetin you go do now if you want make your tomorrow better?		What plans can lead to a happy future for you?
When make Adam and Eve, e command dem sey: ' Make una born children and make una full this earth. '		Back when there were just two humans ( and after the Flood, eight ), commanded: " Be fruitful and become many. "
When Joseph see sey water don dey pass garri, e borrow leg run comot.		And when the situation became critical, he fled from her.
When Paul dey write give the Christian wey God choose with holy spirit like am, e sey: ' E save us from darkness hand, come carry us put for the kingdom wey im Son wey e love well well get, because of am we don free because the ransom na im make God forgive our sin. '		Writing to fellow anointed Christians, Paul stated: " [ ] rescued us from the authority of the darkness and transferred us into the kingdom of his beloved Son, by means of whom we have our release by ransom, the forgiveness of our sins. "
When we think about how take protect Bible so that e go last reach our time, e dey make our faith strong more more.		Besides strengthening our faith, reviewing how the Bible has endured through the ages deepens our love for.
When you reach motor park, you fit confuse because of the many passengers and many bus.		At the bus station, you are overwhelmed by crowds of passengers and many buses.
Why e good make we get faith, and wetin faith be like, and why?		How important is " faith in God, " and to what is it likened, and why?
You go really see as e go help you well well. "		You really feel 's care more than ever. "
You no go get correct advice wey go help you live better life everyday.		You would have no reliable advice for day - to - day living.
You really want go stay area where dem need more people to preach, but you dey fear whether you fit do am?		Do you too long to serve in a territory where more Kingdom workers are needed, but you wonder whether you will ever reach that goal?
You think sey Noah close mouth or e tell dem to mind their business?		Did Noah keep quiet or tell them to mind their own business?
Zacchaeus na chief tax collector for Jericho. E come get plenty money because na wayo man.		Zacchaeus, the chief tax collector in Jericho, had become rich by extorting money from the people.
The second and third book of John dey praise Christian wey " dey follow the truth. " - 2 John 4; 3 John 3, 4.		His second and third letters commend Christians who continue " walking in the truth. " - 2 John 4; 3 John 3, 4.
When Daniel don old, think about how e feel when God send one angel come give am power.		And just imagine how encouraged the elderly prophet Daniel was when God sent an angel to strengthen him.
And e still sey: " know wetin dey happen to person wey dey do the correct thing. " ( Ps.		And the psalmist assures us: " is aware of what the blameless go through. "
E still talk sey: " no be just my Papa, na still my tight Friend.		She adds: " is not only my Father but also my close Friend, whom I get to know better under different circumstances.
Which time Jesus choose ' the slave wey get sense and wey dem fit trust '?		When did Jesus appoint " the faithful and discreet slave "?
If we carry body down, how e fit help us?		In what ways will humility protect us?
Why we no go stop to beg make e forgive us?		Why should we not hold back from asking for forgiveness?
E give us the kind mind wey fit help us know whether wetin we want do good or bad and wey fit correct us. - Rom.		He also created us with a conscience - an inborn sense of right and wrong - that can help us avoid wrongdoing and correct our mistakes when we fall short. - Rom.
After, dem go tell am make e go meet the elders wey dey the city where e for kill person.		He was to be received hospitably.
Ki. 7: 13 - 16 ) So the copper wey dem take make the two mountain dey show sey and Jesus na better King. When dem start to dey rule, dem go protect everybody and people go enjoy plenty better things.		Appropriately, then, the copper of the two symbolic mountains reminds us of the excellent quality of 's universal sovereignty and of the Messianic Kingdom, which will provide stability and blessings to all mankind.
This work no easy, and we dey face wahala as we dey do am.		That is not an easy work, and there are many challenges.
Because of the suffer wey dem suffer for their place, refugee fit stop to do things with people. And because of shame, dem fit no like to talk about wetin dem suffer, especially when their pikin dey there.		Persecution has caused some refugees to become withdrawn, and they may feel ashamed to talk about their suffering, especially in the presence of their children.
Wetin go help us understand Romans 5: 12?		What sheds light on the sense of Romans 5: 12?
We know sey Timothy and Titus go happy well well for the better word wey Paul talk about dem.		How encouraged Timothy and Titus must have been to learn what Paul thought of them!
After I comot for prison, I follow Leonard Smith * dey preach for different different town wey dey Kent, where we come from.		After my release, I was asked to join Leonard Smith * to preach in various towns in our home county of Kent.
After one year and five months, we come get another pikin. Im name na Stephany.		Soon after, our first daughter, Kimberly, was born, and 17 months later, we had Stephany.
After some month, dem come allow me comot.		After a few months there, I was allowed to leave.
And instead of Adam to do wetin God talk, e chop the fruit wey Eve give am. - Rev.		And instead of obeying God, Adam accepted the fruit Eve held out to him. - Rev.
As we dey near the country, we come see sey Greece soldier don surround everywhere.		Nearing the border, we suddenly found ourselves surrounded by Greek soldiers.
As you dey drive dey go, the motor come off for where bush dey.		Along the way, you must go through a long tunnel.
Before I tell una, make I first talk about myself.		First, let me tell you about my background.
Before we answer that question, e good make we first know wetin Bible talk about people wey God spirit dey direct.		However, before we answer that, we need to understand clearly what the Bible says about spiritual, or spiritually - minded, people.
Bible talk sey: ' Person wey get sense no dey talk too much. And person wey know wetin e dey do dey always control im temper. '		God 's Word says: " A man of knowledge restrains his words, and a discerning man will remain calm. "
But after that time, Bible no talk about am again. For example, the first miracle wey Jesus do na when e turn water to wine. Bible no talk anything about Joseph that time, or after that time.		When Jesus performed his first miracle, turning water into wine, there was no mention of Joseph - then or on any subsequent occasion.
But na the condition that time force them make them de think and do things like that.		I remember one time when we stopped at a gas station.
But we know sey dey pity for us, and e go help us. This one make us know sey, we fit be the kind person wey God want make we be.		Yet, with 's merciful help, we can succeed in becoming the sort of person he wants us to be.
But wetin Jesus tell them show say e de enjoy as e de talk about God with this woman. For Jesus, na this one dey important pass the food.		But his reply indicated that he was so absorbed in the spiritual discussion that his hunger could be ignored.
But why we fit talk sey person wey want baptize don already tell for prayer sey e want use im life serve am? Jesus tell the people wey dey follow am to ' go make people im disciple and baptize dem. '		Why is it reasonable to conclude that individuals who present themselves for baptism have already made an unreserved dedication to?
Dem come put some of this Bible Student for war front so that bullet go quick touch dem.		Some who refused to kill were sent to the front lines, with the expectation that they would lose their life.
Dem no force dem to join army.		They also did not have to share in military service.
Dem still dey pioneer for Kenya.		They still serve faithfully in the full - time service in Kenya.
E dey hungry many people to hear wetin e want talk.		Most in the audience sat in suspense.
E fit hard us the first time to sabi how dem dey think or how dem dey behave.		At first, we may not fully understand their way of thinking or reacting.
E leave im family and im country because e want serve.		At considerable sacrifice, she converted to true worship.
E take me time to wash my body well before I chop morning food!		It took me quite some time to clean myself up and get ready for breakfast!
E want teach us how to live better life.		Because he loves us, and he wants to teach us how to benefit ourselves.
For example, e get wetin happen when Solomon dey rule.		Even those who do not know the true God often show compassion.
For example, one brother and sister for Australia no vex when one woman talk to dem anyhow for preaching.		For example, two in Australia listened respectfully to a householder who spoke very unkindly to them.
For example, when Israel people still dey serve, dem dey always sing.		It is noteworthy that when the ancient Israelites were faithfully serving, singing was prominent in their worship.
For there, e hide for one woman house wey im name na Jael; e husband name na Heber wey be Kenite person. Jael welcome Sisera.		He sought refuge in the tent of Jael, the wife of Heber the Kenite, and was welcomed by Jael.
How Romans 12: 3 - 5 fit help us if our work for change?		How should Paul 's counsel to Christians in Rome help us when we are affected by change?
How favor fit ' help us when we need help '?		How can undeserved kindness " help us at the right time "?
I come see sey e good make person dey near well well before problem come. "		I have come to realize the importance of developing a good personal relationship with before difficult situations arise. "
I no dey fit talk to people for Kingdom Hall. E even worse especially when I dey with people wey I no know at all. "		I could barely talk to people at the Kingdom Hall, much less knock on the doors of complete strangers. "
If dem really see sey e kill the person by mistake, dem go allow am go back to the city wey e first run go.		Only after they had declared the killing accidental would the fugitive be returned to the city of refuge.
If we dey do like that, we fit help people wey be like Peter. Dem fit no fine for body but dem get better mind.		As we do so, we may be able to move people who, like Peter, may not be attractive to human eyes but who have a good heart.
Instead of you to dey vex, try to see why dem dey correct you like that.		Rather than fret over the manner of discipline, try to recognize that there may be a reason for the way they act.
don really show us better example. E dey always do wetin e promise and e ready to help us do wetin we promise.		He sets the example for us by living up to his promises, and he will help us live up to ours.
Jesus promise am sey im " brother go come back to life. "		Jesus assured her: " Your brother will rise. "
Jesus teach us make we make the kingdom the number thing for our life, no be property.		Jesus taught us to ' seek first the Kingdom, ' not material things.
Jesus want make dem change.		Not at all.
Make we dey thank and dey praise am every day for all the better things wey e don do; because all im work too many to talk about. ( Ps.		Too numerous to recount " are the " wonderful works " we can thank and praise for daily!
Make you no think sey you know wetin people believe, e good to first ask dem.		First, do not be quick to assume you know what others believe.
Make you ready to comot body from anything wey fit make you stop to value God Kingdom.		Be willing to give up anything that could replace your wholehearted love for God 's Kingdom.
Na because of im faith for.		It was his faith in.
Na my papa dey take care of me when my mama go meeting or preaching.		When I was a toddler, my father would care for me while my mother attended meetings and shared in the witnessing work on weekends.
Na only get the freedom to do anything wey e want do. But we fit learn from the way e dey use am.		alone has absolute freedom, but the way he uses it sets a pattern for us.
Na so e still be for us. We need to copy the better example of people wey be friend.		In like manner, we can grow spiritually by observing and imitating spiritually strong people.
Na still this kind people Paul talk about sey, dem dey ' put their mind for the things wey the flesh want. '		This sheds light on the meaning of the expression " those who live according to the flesh, " who Paul said, " set their minds on the things of the flesh. "
Na the love wey we get for God and our neighbor, and because na small time remain to preach, make us dey ' come out, come give gift wey dey our hand ' as we dey contribute to support im work.		Love for God and neighbor and the urgency of the Kingdom - preaching work move God 's people " to come forward. with a gift in hand for " by making voluntary donations.
No be only that one. E come even arrange make Bath - sheba husband, wey be Uriah, die for war so that people no go know wetin happen.		To make matters worse, he tried to hide the sin by arranging for her husband, Uriah, to be killed in battle.
No dey always think sey things go happen the way you want am. - Mic.		Be modest in your expectations. - Mic.
No do wetin go show sey you no support am. How we take dey gain from the slave wey dey use teach us?		How do we benefit from 's instruction provided by means of " the faithful steward "?
No forget sey na draw us near body make we be im friend and e know sey we go make mistake sometimes.		Consider this: When drew us into a relationship with him, he knew that we would err at times.
One person wey e write the book of Psalms, sing say: " E really good and e really sweet when brothers dey together as one! "		The psalmist was moved to exclaim: " How good and how pleasant it is for brothers to dwell together in unity! "
Paul advice the Christians for Philippi sey make dem get one mind as Christians. E sey make dem dey encourage each other, dey love each other, dey do things together, and dey pity for each other. E come still sey: " Make una no use trouble or oversabi do anything, but carry yourself down when you dey do things, with the mind sey other people better pass you.		Paul gave this advice to all the members of the congregation in Philippi: " If, then, there is any encouragement in Christ, if any consolation of love, if any spiritual fellowship, if any tender affection and compassion, make my joy full by being of the same mind and having the same love, being completely united, having the one thought in mind.
Paul talk sey: ' Mark the person and stop to dey do things with am. '		Paul directed: " Keep this one marked and stop associating with him. "
People wey dey behave like this no dey look other people as anything. Dem fit dey think like this because dem fine, get money, dey for high position or sabi do things pass other people.		After stating that many would be lovers of themselves and of money, Paul wrote that people would also be boastful, haughty, and puffed up with pride, traits that often reflect a feeling of superiority because of one 's abilities, appearance, wealth, or rank.
People wey show sey dem get faith for Jesus sacrifice and wey do wetin God want, go dey among the people wey go shout sey: ' Our God wey sitdown for the throne, and the Lamb, na una save us. ' - Rev.		Those who exercise faith in Christ 's ransom and who do the will of God can be among those who shout: " Salvation we owe to our God, who is seated on the throne, and to the Lamb. " - Rev.
Person wey baptize just dey start.		Baptism is just the beginning, though.
Plan how to spend money so that you no go spend pass wetin dey your hand.		Prepare a realistic budget.
See how dem dey do when you tell dem the truth wey dey Bible. "		Watch their reaction when they hear Bible truths. '
So e good make we dey our seat before the music start. This one go make us fit listen to dem well.		Therefore, we are encouraged to be in our seats from the start and to listen attentively to these music programs.
Some for inside the first Christian dem try ' take God favor as chance to do bad things. '		Among the early Christians, there were some who attempted to " turn the undeserved kindness of.
Some of dem dey even ask me question about am.		Sometimes they ask questions about it.
Sometimes e no easy for us, especially when dem tell us sey dem no believe some things wey we dey teach dem.		It was hard at times, though, to hear them say that they did not agree with some aspect of the truth.
That Judgment day no suppose ' surprise [ us ] like when thief come ' so far we ' no sleep ' and our ' sense complete. '		That day of judgment does not have to " overtake [ us ] as it would thieves, " provided we " stay awake and keep our senses. "
That time, na serious problem if woman no born.		In her day, that situation was viewed as a great affliction.
The eight brothers go go the prison wey dey one place wey dem dey call Atlanta, for Georgia and e go tey before dem release dem.		The eight Bible Students were sentenced to long terms of imprisonment in the federal penitentiary in Atlanta, Georgia.
The plenty things wey we de learn for this meeting de help us know how to make return visit and conduct Bible study pass before.		The practical instruction we receive at this meeting helps many of us feel more confident about making return visits and conducting Bible studies.
The reason wey make am pain us be sey we don come like the people for Africa. Who know?		We had grown to love the people of Africa and hoped to return someday.
The sister sey when im and im husband dey do circuit work, dem dey happy well well when dem stay with person wey love. The person fit no get money, but e dey serve well and dey live simple life like dem.		She said that when she and her husband are serving in the traveling work, their best weeks are those spent staying with a spiritual person who may not have much materially but who has the same focus as they have - serving and keeping life simple.
Their belle really sweet dem sey dem work for Bethel. Their daughter and im husband still join dem. Even the brother papa and mama follow do the work for some weeks.		A special blessing for them has been to serve at Bethel with their daughter and son - in - law and, for some weeks, with the husband 's parents, who also worked on the Warwick project.
They don give me Watchtower and Awake!		I had accepted the Watchtower and Awake!
This one go make plenty better things reach our hand now, and for God Kingdom, we go get life wey no go end.		Yet, it opens the door to countless blessings now and to everlasting life in God 's new world.
This one go make you get joy, and e go just be like say time de fly. ( Eph.		That will bring you great joy, and it will seem to you that time is passing quickly.
This things happen before dem born me.		That was a couple of years before I was born.
This things wey e dey do help am to love more more.		As his love for increased, he began to make fine spiritual progress.
We fit learn something from wetin that Bible verse talk about Noah.		Consider what those words say about that righteous man.
We get hope sey we go fit live life wey no get end.		Having the prospect of everlasting life.
We get many reason wey fit make us ask this question.		Or maybe the wrong attitudes of those around us are wearing us out.
We go read am, think about wetin we read, come pray make help us fit do wetin we learn.		I remember you while upon my bed, " wrote David.
We really dey happy because now our children dey serve, and e don bless dem well well. And the blessing self don reach us. "		It has been a great source of satisfaction not only to see our children reach spiritual goals but to share the journey with them. "
Wetin fit happen if person no train e conscience for the right way?		What can result when a conscience is not properly trained?
Wetin go come remain when all our wahala don comot?		What will replace the stresses we feel now?
When I come back from the convention, I come tell myself sey I no go do wetin go vex when I reach school.		I returned from the convention determined to take my stand for my faith in school.
When I dey pioneer for 1952		Pioneering in 1952
When I reach 18 years, dem put me for prison for nine months because I no gree do military work.		When I turned 18, I was imprisoned for nine months because I refused to perform military service.
When correct us, how this one take dey show sey e love us?		In what ways does discipline from reflect his love for us?
When dem come back from Babylon all of dem come be one people.		Representatives of both the two - tribe kingdom and the ten - tribe kingdom returned together from exile.
When e dey there, e get some place wey holy spirit no gree make e enter go preach.		While Paul was there, the holy spirit repeatedly stopped him from preaching in certain areas.
When you dey try to respect people, you fit come see sey e go help you make you no dey feel bad.		When you strive to deal respectfully with people, you will likely find that you are better able to deal with your own negative emotions.
Which person dey gentle and dey patient pass?		Who is the best example in showing mildness and patience?
Why some people feel sey dem no go fit invite other people come their house?		What anxieties about extending hospitality might some have?
Why we no need to fear Satan?		Why should we not be overly anxious about the Devil?
Yes, that na wetin go do!		Most assuredly he will!
You no go quick pull am comot? Na so e still be.		You would strip off the soiled garment as soon as possible.
You ready to do this kind thing?		Could you assist?
paragraph 5 ) No be their real name be that.		paragraph 5 ) Names have been changed.
for school?		at school?
when different government rule?		political developments?
Dem continue to pursue their enemy '! - Judges 8: 4.		They kept up the pursuit "! - Judges 8: 4.
No Let Your Hand Weak, ' Sept.		Organized in Harmony With God 's Own Book, Nov.
You fit ask, wetin I go do to make the faith wey I get for wetin promise strong well well?		You may wonder, though, how can your expectation become more sure?
Job no know wetin mek e just come dey get plenty problem, but e no stop to serve God.		Job did not know why he was suddenly suffering so many trials, but he never gave up.
You don ever think about the answer to this question dem?		Have you ever wondered about the answers to questions such as these?
Jesus dey sure sey go send angels make dem help am anytime wey e need help to do wetin God want. - Matt.		Jesus was confident that would send angelic help whenever he needed it to accomplish God 's will. - Matt.
So if person get sense, e dey show sey the person no be small pikin again.		The Bible says that " foolishness is bound up in the heart of a child. "
Wetin we go talk about for this topic?		In what three areas could our love be tested?
Our brothers really plenty for this three town. If you divide the number of people, for inside four people, one of them go be Witness.		Indeed, 1 out of 4 people of the combined population of these three towns is one of 's!
Since 1919 when people comot from fake religion hand, nobody don fit stop the work wey dem dey do even though sey people suffer dem.		Ever since spiritual Israel was released from symbolic captivity to Babylon the Great in 1919, the expansion of true worship has been unstoppable despite relentless opposition.
Matt. 24: 21 ) Today for the whole world, we dey see war, people dey do many bad bad thing, plenty church wey dey deceive people just full everywhere, hunger dey well well, plenty sickness, and ground dey shake open.		We see distressing wars, increasing immorality and lawlessness, religious confusion, food shortages, pestilences, and earthquakes taking place around the world.
wey be our Papa know you pass the way you know yourself.		Our dear Father knows you through and through.
Think about another time when Israel people need to choose wetin dem want.		Or think of an instance later in the history of God 's people when they were obliged to make a decision.
Some papa and mama no dey praise their pikin if dem do better thing because their own papa and mama no praise dem.		Some parents do not commend their children because their own parents never gave them any encouragement.
If we want really forgive person, we no go dey ' count how many times e do us bad. ' So, e good make we no dey think about wetin person do us.		For our forgiveness to be genuine, we must control our thinking so that we do " not keep account of the injury. "
Wetin sun and rain dey do for us?		What do sunshine and rain accomplish?
As we dey try fight any kind sin, we dey show sey we thank God for the favor wey e use Jesus Christ take show us.		As we fight against sin in all its forms, we show true appreciation for God 's undeserved kindness through Christ.
Wetin get for mind as e dey save im people from wahala?		When saves his people from their trials, what does he take into consideration?
But that one no mean sey im own don finish.		But that would not be the end of him.
After Adam look the animal well, e go come give the animal the name wey fit am. This work make the man happy.		After Adam observed each animal and assigned it a suitable name, did not step in and override Adam 's choices.
After Jesus don give the example about the vine, e talk say when we de preach, we go get joy.		After relating his illustration of the vine, Jesus said that as Kingdom preachers, we will experience joy.
After sin don comot from their body finish, and dem don pass the final test, na that time dem go come be children.		After we have reached perfection and have passed the final test, will be delighted to sign the certificate, as it were, and adopt us as his beloved earthly children.
As Witness people, wetin we want na to preach to everybody wey we fit preach to before this world go end.		As 's, we desire to reach as many people as possible with the good news before the end comes.
As Maureen reach 20 years, e come go one place wey dem dey call Quebec for Canada, where dem need more pioneers.		When she turned 20 years of age, she moved to Quebec, Canada, where there was a great need for more pioneers.
As time dey go, e go dey easy for you, and you go dey enjoy am!		Over time, study will be both easier and more pleasurable!
As you bend down to check am, you come see sey na gold.		You stoop down and are delighted to find a gold nugget.
Because God really know us, e dey correct us well, and e dey give us the kind correction wey we need.		Because God fully knows us, his discipline is always appropriate and properly measured.
Bible advise us sey: ' No dey quick vex, because na im you go take know person wey no get sense. ' ( Eccl.		A fine Bible principle is this: " Do not be quick to take offense, for the taking of offense lodges in the bosom of fools. "
Bible sey: " After dem read am, dem happy well well sey the letter encourage dem. " - Acts 15: 27 - 32.		After reading it, they rejoiced over the encouragement. " - Acts 15: 27 - 32.
Bible still talk this kind thing. E sey: " If person get joy for im heart, this one na good medicine. " ( Prov.		This is in agreement with the Bible, which says: " A joyful heart is good medicine. "
Bible support that kind thing? How want make we use our life? - Read Ecclesiastes 12: 1.		What course does 's Word encourage? - Read Ecclesiastes 12: 1.
Bible talk am tey tey sey one person go come back to life. Dem talk about this person for Psalm 118. E fit be sey na David write this Psalm.		With regard to a resurrection being foretold long in advance, consider Psalm 118, which some feel that David composed.
Bible talk sey small time, bad people no go dey again.		has promised to rid the earth of wicked people for all time.
Big big fish dey swim come near our boat, and you go just dey hear the sound of the stick wey we take dey move the boat as e dey nack the water.		Dolphins playfully swam alongside our boat, and all you could hear was the swish of our bow cutting through the water.
But, e fit no be like dat if the children no dey understand the language well.		That may not be the case when children do not fully understand the language.
But if to sey e hear word, this kind thing for no happen to am.		What needless pain and suffering Cain brought on himself!
But make dem know sey na big work put for their hand. ( Jas.		At the same time, they should recognize that they have a weighty responsibility.
But the disciple dem no too get faith. ( Matt.		Jesus ' disciples, though, were somewhat lacking in faith.
Dem come announce for the congregation sey we get accident.		There they announced that we had had a mishap, and the brothers kindly gave us financial help.
Dem come dey shoot come where we dey for inside our compound.		Another time, low - flying airplanes shot at my grandmother and me in our yard.
Dem no dey only teach wetin dey Bible but dem dey do wetin dey Bible.		The not only taught the Bible but also obeyed its teachings.
Dem sey for 30 days, make everybody dey pray to the king, make dem no pray to any god or any other person.		Consider what Daniel did when an official decree forbade prayer to any god or man other than the king for 30 days.
E believe sey go resurrect am.		Her faith in the resurrection kept her strong.
E good make we still think about our own life today.		And it is fitting for us to consider the same about our lives.
E pain me well well. Na better husband e be, and we don stay together for 55 years.		He was a wonderful husband for 55 years, one who loved and helped many brothers.
For example, they fit no get work again, or their marriage scatter.		Others may be devastated by the recent breakup of their marriage.
For example, think about wetin Bible talk sey person wey want be elder for congregation suppose do.		As an example, think about the Scriptural qualifications for Christian elders.
For only 1914, the small group of brothers and sisters show the film, wey be " Photo - Drama of Creation " to people wey pass 9,000,000.		In 1914 alone, the small number of Bible Students presented the " Photo - Drama of Creation " to more than 9,000,000 people.
For the apostle time, some people for congregation think like that.		Sadly, some Christians felt that way even while some of the apostles were still alive.
How bad religion, government and business take dey affect us today?		How do corrupt organizations affect us today?
How we fit make our love for strong?		How can we keep our love for strong?
I be the only pikin, and I no get the support wey I really need.		I was an only child, and I could not seem to get the comfort and support that I wanted so much.
I learn Latin small, come learn story about Catholic " saint " dem and I worship Mary.		I learned some Latin, studied the lives of Catholic " saints, " and worshipped Mary.
I start to work for Bethel for June 19, 1950. Na one big old house dem use as Bethel.		I arrived at Bethel on June 19, 1950, and started my new assignment.
I want even be Catholic missionary, like one of my family person wey be missionary for Africa.		I went to church every day, and I even wanted to become a Catholic missionary like my cousin in Africa.
If e no run go any of the city, the family member of the person wey e kill, fit come kill am.		If he did not seek refuge in one of the cities had set aside, the closest relative of the person he had killed was free to put him to death.
If to sey life start by imself, the first thing wey start the life must get the power to fit make another one like imself.		For the first life - form to continue, it had to be able to reproduce, to make copies of itself.
If we like wetin and Jesus do for us, make we do everything wey we fit do to tell people about am. Make dem know how dem fit gain from this gift wey no get equal.		Gratitude for the ransom should motivate us to do all we can to make others aware that they can benefit from that priceless gift.
like to use people wey dey carry body down, and people wey dey use their mind work for am.		is pleased to use those who have a humble, willing spirit.
love us and e know wetin we fit do and wetin we no fit do.		It would go against 's loving ways to disqualify his servants for failing to do something that is beyond their reach.
pursue am comot from the garden and at last e die.		And that was just the beginning of the overall cost.
still dey use wetin e dey teach us for our meeting, assembly, convention and all the school wey we get, to make us strong.		We are also made stronger by divine education at our Christian meetings, assemblies, conventions, and in our theocratic schools.
Jesus no tell us sey that slave no go do mistake for the " food " wey e prepare, or things wey dem dey teach.		Of course, Jesus did not tell us that his faithful slave would produce perfect spiritual food.
Jesus talk sey: ' If as you want come give something for altar, and for there you come remember sey your brother dey vex for you, leave wetin you want give for the front of altar, make you first go settle with am, before you go come give God the thing. '		Jesus said: " If. you are bringing your gift to the altar and there you remember that your brother has something against you, leave your gift there in front of the altar, and go away.
King David still do the same thing when dem want build temple. ( Ex. 35: 5; 1 Chron.		For example, Moses called for donations for the construction of the tabernacle, as did King David for the building of the temple.
Left: Nadia and Marie - Madeleine; Right: Thierry		Far left: Nadia and Marie - Madeleine; Far right: Thierry
Many of your age - mate dey like to only enjoy theirself. And dem fit tell you make you join dem.		Other youths of your age probably center their lives on having a good time, and they will likely invite you to join them.
Me and Brother Franz when I dey WBBR		At WBBR with Brother Franz
Me and my wife come see sey, if husband and wife dey serve and dey do im work together, dem go happy. "		As newlyweds, we were able to see how happy a couple can be when they serve and pursue spiritual goals together. "
My mama de always go church.		My mother was very religious.
Na im way be that.		He has always done that.
Na that time we know sey the priest dem dey control the area.		We did not realize how much power the priests had.
Na wetin Satan do make fight and quarrel full everywhere today. Why we talk like that?		Satan is primarily responsible for the strife and differences experienced by mankind.
No wonder, when Rachel no fit born pikin like im sister, body come dey pepper am.		Rachel, Jacob 's wife, expressed anguish at seeing her sister have children.
One elder wey im name na Shan, talk wetin e remember when e dey small. E sey: ' Our mama no too understand the language wey me and my two sister dey speak, and we no dey fit speak my mama language well.		Our single mom 's grasp of the language we understood best was limited, and my sisters and I didn 't speak her language very well, " recalls an elder named Shan.
One professor for chemistry talk sey for the first thing wey start life to fit make another one like imself, e must ( 1 ) dey inside container wey go protect am, ( 2 ) give imself power and use the power, ( 3 ) get something inside am wey go control how e go be and where e go grow reach, and ( 4 ) get the power to make this thing wey dey inside am plenty.		One professor of chemistry said that among the things needed would be ( 1 ) a protective membrane, ( 2 ) the ability to get and process energy, ( 3 ) information in the genes, and ( 4 ) the ability to make copies of that information.
Paul use wetin dey the Law take free imself, and e still talk sey e get right like other jew people to worship the God wey Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob worship.		Paul referred to the Law and the Prophets, and he claimed the right to worship ' the God of his forefathers. '
Second Timothy 3: 4 talk about people wey like enjoyment instead of God.		Second Timothy 3: 4 refers to a pursuit of pleasures that excludes God.
So, because of the kind person wey e be, e dey let us do wetin we want. - Deut.		Is that not what we would expect from the God who values our freedom and who always exercises his attributes in perfect balance? - Deut.
So, when we do mistake, make we beg to forgive us.		Thus, when we fall short in some respect, we should ask for forgiveness.
So I still de pray about - am. "		That is why I continue praying about it. "
So that you no go lose the better things wey you get, wetin you don ready to do?		What are you resolved to do to safeguard your spiritual riches?
Some government dey arrange how to help refugee to fit stay for their new place.		Some governments have programs to help refugees adjust to their new circumstances.
The brothers wey come from other country, still talk how their preaching come take better when dem go back to their country.		Participants from abroad expressed how the campaign affected their ministry even after they returned to their home countries.
The family member of the person wey im kill, ' get right to kill am ' back. This family member go be man wey near am pass. ( Num.		Willful murderers were put to death by the victim 's nearest male relative, known as " the avenger of blood. "
The two of dem come clean the mama body.		The visitors helped her to clean up.
The way this elders show this family love and support them, e help the family make they shine their light.		Their loving interest and support have helped this family to let their light shine.
Think about Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, wey no gree serve the image wey the government for Babylon that time keep sey mek people serve.		Think of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, who refused to worship an image that represented the government of Babylon.
This one na normal thing for this world today. But e no suppose be like that for people.		That is true of many who do not worship, but among his name worshippers, peace and unity should prevail.
True true, Bible don survive reach our time, even when the language wey many people sabi change.		Indeed, God 's Word has continued to endure despite changes to the common language.
We dey go preaching, and do meeting for there.		Demand for our publications rose dramatically.
We dey try make we no lie and make we no deceive people?		Are we determined to avoid both lying and deception?
We don see another thing wey show sey wetin dey Bible na true. For another place for Bible, dem call this name Ish - bosheth.		Once again, a detail in the Bible has been borne out by archaeological evidence.
We fit learn plenty things from the way Jesus handle one situation for e time. That time, people no de agree about the way things suppose to be for their area.		We can learn much by examining how Jesus handled a situation in the first century when the land was unsettled by political turmoil.
Wetin Baruch example teach us?		What lesson do we learn from Baruch?
Wetin give us mind sey dem go arrange the new earth well?		Why can we be sure that the new earth will be well - organized?
Wetin this young woman come do?		How did this young woman respond?
Wetin we fit learn from David example?		What can we learn from David 's example?
Wetin we go gain if we choose wetin go make happy?		How do we benefit from making decisions that please?
Wetin you don see for your life, wey show you sey really good?		How have you personally tasted 's goodness?
Which question we fit ask ourself if we dey think about how we go take settle the quarrel wey we get with people?		What questions might a Christian ask himself when deciding how to settle differences with others?
Why disciples of Jesus no need to do partial, and how Jesus help them understand - am?		Why did the disciples of Christ need to view foreigners impartially, and how did Jesus help them understand that?
Why e good make we train people to do work? Why e good to train people?		Why should training others in 's service be important to us?
You fit just talk am the way e be.		You could just state facts.
Young people, una think sey una go like am if una join congregation wey dey use the language of where una dey stay?		Young people, do you think that you would prefer being part of a local - language congregation?
dey surprise me well well!		articles amaze me!
Study guides " for " What Does the Bible Really Teach? "		can help you to build your conviction about your beliefs.
Do Wetin You Promise, ' Apr.		Living in " the Last Days "? No.
If we do this one, we go get faith and the sense wey God dey give.		Then faith and godly wisdom will protect us from Satan 's clever designs and from the world 's evil spirit.
Like Paul, how we fit make our love for strong?		How can we imitate Paul 's example and keep our love for strong?
Make you take am easy with dem and make you dey pray about the matter.		Be patient and prayerful.
[CONTENT_REMOVED]		See paragraph 14 )
E clear sey, the ' anything ' wey Jesus dey talk for here na anything wey agree with wetin want.		Obviously, " anything " means anything that is in harmony with 's will.
After that one, e tell them say: " l de call wuna my friends. "		Next, he said: " I have called you friends. "
This " slave " no dey use any other website take teach us apart from www.jw.org, tv.jw.org, and wol.jw.org.		That " slave " uses only its official websites to publish spiritual food - www.jw.org, tv.jw.org, and wol.jw.org.
But, when you get strong faith sey go take care of you, you no go worry too much; or you fit no even worry at all.		Accordingly, strong faith in 's loving care can help you to cope with or avoid such anxiety.
When we see how take dey bless us, e go dey clear sey Bible still dey change our life! - Ps.		As we see 's blessing on our efforts, we will have clear evidence that the Bible can keep changing our life. - Ps.
Why e be sey God people need correction from 1914 go reach 1919?		Why did God 's people need correction and discipline between 1914 and 1919?
Wetin young people fit do make dem no follow their mate do bad thing?		How can youths combat peer pressure?
Why still continue to use Peter, even with the mistake wey e do?		After Peter 's mistake, why did continue to use Peter?
Why we no need to fear when we de pray loud?		Why should we not fear to pray out loud to?
Na wetin we self go do if we see sey we don dey think sey we better pass other people. Make we try comot am from our mind.		Likewise, if we detect any trace of prejudice or racial pride in us, we should make a conscious effort to root it out of our heart.
True true, Jesus sacrifice be like key wey dem use open door so that God go do wetin e get for mind for human being. ( 2 Cor.		Indeed, the ransom is the key that unlocks the door to the fulfillment of God 's original purpose.
Wetin go make dem do that kind thing?		What might induce them to do such a thing?
John 4: 10 ) From the time when first talk sey Person go come save us, e know sey wetin e talk must happen.		In fact, from the moment that promised a future Savior, He viewed this sacrifice as already made.
You remember how Pharaoh daughter take save Moses when e small?		Or recall Pharaoh 's daughter who saved baby Moses ' life.
After, me and one of my neighbor, Angelines, come be tight friend.		Later, I met Angelines, one of my neighbors, and we became close friends.
After this one, Michael come be unbaptized publisher.		After that, Michael became an unbaptized publisher.
As dey pity us, we suppose dey thank and praise am.		God 's mercy should fill us with gratitude and move us to glorify him.
As time dey go, I come see sey I no dey fear to talk to people again.		Later, I realized that confidence was no longer an issue.
As time dey go, the papa and mama go fit dey teach their pikin about.		It is to be hoped that the parents will, in time, fulfill their God - given responsibility to care spiritually for their children.
Barnabas go don like as Paul dey use all im power preach, and how e no dey fear face if e dey preach.		Barnabas must have seen good in Paul 's intense drive and direct approach.
Because if we get faith sey Jesus die and dem bring am come life again, na so God go still. bring people wey don sleep for death come life.		For if we have faith that Jesus died and rose again, so too God will bring with him those who have fallen asleep in death.
Because im brothers dey jealous am and dem hate am, dem pursue am comot for im village.		Because his brothers were jealous and hated him, they forced him to leave the land that legally belonged to him.
Because of this one, people go dey run from dem.		As a result, others may not want to be around them.
Before, apostle Peter de only like to do things with Jew people.		The apostle Peter had a custom of associating only with Jews.
Bible help us know why people get one mind.		s own Book shows why we should expect his people to be united.
But Jephthah pikin own be sey, e go be like ' sacrifice wey dem burn for fire. ' So, e no go fit enjoy wetin people wey don marry and wey get pikin, dey enjoy.		But Jephthah 's daughter was given as a complete " burnt offering, " so she would not have the joy of being a wife and a mother.
But no be everything we fit do. know wetin we fit do and wetin we no fit do.		At the same time, knows that humans have limitations.
Dem go tell you how don take help dem. And, no forget sey na the Law wey dem read give Josiah na im make am do the good things wey e do.		Also, remember that the reading of the Scriptures touched Josiah 's heart and moved him to take action.
Dem must make sure sey dem worship the way e want. Dem no go allow any wicked person enter or remain for house.		Wickedness cannot and will not be allowed to creep into and dwell among 's people.
E do missionary work for Ivory Coast ( wey be Cte d 'Ivoire now ) for 20 years.		Now in her early 60 ' s, she served as a missionary in Ivory Coast ( now Cte d 'Ivoire ) for 20 years.
E fit be sey you dey live for area wey people don already know sey we no dey put hand for politics.		We may live in a place where people do not expect us to take sides in politics.
E fit hard some of people to fit get the kind work wey go give dem the things wey dem need for life.		Some of 's servants may find themselves in situations where earning enough for necessities seems very difficult.
E get some fine fine area wey near where we dey. Na sense we take preach for there. People dey come from different different place for Russia come visit this fine fine place. Na sickness dey carry some of dem come.		We preached cautiously in the neighboring resort towns, which were visited by people from all over the country.
E go don learn how Joseph take pity im brothers, even though sey dem hate am.		He must have learned how Joseph showed his brothers mercy even though they hated him.
E good make we always dey pray make help us. E still good make we do everything wey we fit do to stop all the things wey fit make us no enter God Kingdom. ( Gal.		We need to pray fervently for God 's help and work hard to overcome any attitude or practice that will prevent us from inheriting God 's Kingdom.
E no easy for am to bear this kind problem.		Overcoming this trial was not easy.
E pass 1,000 Witness family wey this breeze scatter their house. E get one brother wey im house dey one city wey dem dey call Tacloban, im name na George.		George, whose home in the city of Tacloban was obliterated, said: " In spite of what happened, the brothers are happy.
E sey: ' Una must enter inside the ark. '		Also, Noah no doubt explained to the people the only means of escape, repeating God 's command: " You must go into the ark. "
E talk sey: " Me and my wife dey do personal study with our pikin for our language wey be French.		He explains: " My wife and I have a personal study with both girls in French, their mother tongue.
Even people wey no dey serve get this kind mind. ( Gen. 1: 27 ) Bible tell us different example of people wey pity for other people and help dem.		Accordingly, because is compassionate, interest in others ' well - being is rooted in human nature.
Even self, the way Witness people don take preach about God Kingdom for the whole world, dey surprise many people.		We know that a phenomenal Kingdom - preaching work is being accomplished by 's people everywhere.
For 2011, Governing Body change the time wey dem dey do Watchtower Study for Bethel wey dey United States. Dem change am from 6: 45 to 6: 15 for evening.		Interestingly, in 2011 the Governing Body changed the time of the Watchtower Study for the United States Bethel family from 6: 45 p.m. to 6: 15 p.m.
For First Corinthians, apostle Paul tell anointed ones sey as dem dey remember Jesus death every year, dem " dey tell other people about the Lord death until e come. "		In his first inspired letter to the Corinthians, Paul wrote to anointed Christians that by commemorating Jesus ' death each year, they " keep proclaiming the death of the Lord, until he comes. "
For Hebrews chapter 11, apostle Paul talk about the kind suffer wey many of God servant wey their name no dey Bible suffer.		In Hebrews chapter 11, the apostle Paul describes the trials that many unnamed servants of God endured.
For all this years, we don really learn plenty better things from brothers and sisters.		Over the years, association with faithful brothers has greatly enriched our lives.
For example, the Law wey God give Israel people help dem live clean life, dem no join other nation wey dey around dem live bad life.		For example, in God 's Law to the Israelites there were rules that protected them against the openly immoral way of life of the nations around them.
God go punish people wey open eye do wetin e no like. - Heb.		God does not tolerate willful disobedience to his law. - Heb.
God use Paul tell dem sey: ' Make una no dey give una body to sin make e come be something to use do wetin no good, but make una give una self to God as people wey don wake up from death, and give una body to God as something to use do wetin good. '		Paul was inspired to write to them: " Neither go on presenting your bodies to sin as weapons of unrighteousness, but present yourselves to God as those alive from the dead, also your bodies to God as weapons of righteousness. "
How Moses take show sey no be only imself e dey think about?		How did Moses feel about glory and authority?
How Psalm 118 take show sey person wey die fit still come life again even if e don tey wey God make the promise?		How does Psalm 118 bear out that a resurrection can occur long after being foretold?
How elders for congregation fit help us make we de serve with all our power?		How can congregation elders help us to be vigilant and active?
How we fit help other people when dem want choose wetin dem go do?		How can we help others as they make personal decisions?
I happy say I marry Gloria.		I have never regretted that decision.
If I dey plan to go another country go stay because I dey find better life, I dey think about wetin fit happen to my family and the congregation wey I dey? And, I dey pray about the matter? '		If I am contemplating a major move to another city or country for perceived economic advantages, do I give prayerful consideration to the effect this would have on my family and on the congregation? '
If you and that person dey do things together before, you go continue to dey do things with am?		Your loving concern and firm stand may move the person to abandon a disorderly course.
If you don de grow to be mature Christian, the more you go de value the things wey they fit guide us for Bible.		As you advance toward Christian maturity, you will find that principles become more important to you.
Im papa and mama strong well well for Orthodox church. Because im and Joe, im senior brother no gree stop to study Bible, dem pursue dem comot for house.		Because she and her elder brother, Joe, refused to stop studying the Bible, they were expelled from home by zealous Orthodox parents.
people don stop to do the bad things wey dem dey do before dem come learn about am, come love am, and dey serve am.		s people have turned their back on " the fruit that [ they ] used to produce " before they came to know, love, and serve God.
tell Jew people sey: " Find wetin go bring peace for the city wey I send una go. " ( Jer.		For instance, told the Jews: " Seek the peace of the city to which I have exiled you. "
Make we no do like Nabal. Instead, make we dey show sey we like the good things wey people do for us.		We can easily see that we would never want to be like Nabal, unappreciative of good things done for us.
Make we see another verse wey talk about resurrection.		Consider another verse that pointed forward to a resurrection.
Make we tell dem sey, make dem still go back go check people wey no too listen to dem.		We can help them to keep in mind those who show even slight interest.
Many people dey serve today. E dey come from their heart to use the ' better things ' wey dem get for work. Dem dey use their time, their power, and their money take do work. ( Prov.		Today, millions join in true worship, and they are moved from the heart to contribute their " valuable things, " which include their time, energy, and resources in support of 's great spiritual temple.
Many times, dem use some verse wey dey Hebrew part for Bible take write Greek part. And dem tell people wey dem preach to make dem dey use Bible.		They quoted from and referred to the Hebrew Scriptures hundreds of times in their writings and encouraged the people to whom they preached to do the same.
Na im make the enemy go lie give the soldier so that dem no go trust the oga.		So propagandists attempt to break bonds of confidence and trust between a soldier and his commander.
Na im mek us come dey use bus and later dey use motor go dey preach from village to village.		So we traveled by bus and later by car to go from village to village.
Na so e go still be for person wey stop to swim before e reach where land dey.		Similarly, the person who gives up just before he reaches the shore will also drown.
Na so person go still dey try, even if e ' don grow pass the first things wey dem teach about Christ. ' ( Heb.		Effort is also needed after a person has moved beyond " the primary doctrine about the Christ. "
No ever forget sey, God go ' bless you well well ' because you dey use all your mind pray.		Never forget that your heartfelt prayers and freeness of speech with God " will be richly rewarded. "
No let fear or shame catch you!		Do not let it scare you or embarrass you!
One brother wey come from Australia write sey: " The hardest work wey you go ever do, na to help your pikin get faith.		An Australian brother wrote: " Helping to build faith in your child 's heart is probably the greatest challenge you will ever face.
Other things wey e make still get law wey dey make dem work well together. ( Ps. 19: 7 - 9 ) Na im make everything get where dem suppose dey and how dem suppose work as God want.		Hence, all things in the universe have an assigned place and function according to their role in God 's purpose.
Our mind fit come down.		Receiving comfort for our hearts.
Paul write sey: ' Husband, make una continue to dey love una wife as Christ take love the congregation, come even die for am. '		Paul wrote: " Husbands, continue loving your wives, just as the Christ also loved the congregation and gave himself up for it. "
Person wey know where e suppose do reach go praise because na im make us and na im high pass.		A modest person gives the honor he deserves, since is our Creator and Universal Sovereign.
Preaching dey help us carry body down and get other better character wey holy spirit dey give. ( Gal.		Sharing the good news with others can help us to cultivate humility and various aspects of the fruitage of God 's spirit.
Proverbs 19: 17 talk sey: ' Anybody wey dey do good to poor person dey borrow something, and E go pay am back for wetin e do. '		The one showing favor to the lowly is lending to, and He will repay him for what he does, " says Proverbs 19: 17.
Remember this advice for Bible: ' Person wey dey waka with who get sense, go get sense.		Recall this inspired proverb: " The one walking with the wise will become wise, but the one who has dealings with the stupid will fare badly. "
Sister Anna Gardner come talk how the people clap take shake the building.		Anna Gardner described how " the rafters shook with the applause. "
So e come dey do well for congregation and work come dey sweet am. E pioneer, e join hand go help brothers and sisters wey something like heavy rain, scatter their property; e still go another country go preach.		Since then, Aaron has enjoyed pioneering, working with others in connection with disaster relief, and preaching in a foreign land.
So for this kind place, if brother keep beard beard, e fit make people dey talk bad about and the brother. - Rom.		In fact, having one may hinder a brother from bringing glory to God by his dress and grooming and his being irreprehensible. - Rom.
Sometimes, somebody for congregation fit talk or do wetin pain us.		So at times some in the congregation may hurt us by what they say or do.
The brother talk sey: " Since e don tey, I think sey e no get anything wey the elders go fit do for me again.		After so much time had gone by, " he admits, " I thought that there wasn 't anything the elders could do for me anymore.
True true, single sisters wey dey go another country go preach don show good example wey we no go forget.		Indeed, single sisters serving abroad have established an outstanding record of Christian service.
We fit no get work, we fit dey struggle with serious sickness, and people fit dey cause trouble for us because we dey serve. Things like, heavy breeze fit scatter our property.		We deal with unemployment, serious illnesses, persecution, natural disasters, loss of possessions because of crime, or other hardships.
We get many brothers and sisters today wey don show us better example. Dem no stop to get joy even when dem dey face wahala.		Today, our brotherhood includes many fine examples of individuals who maintained joy in the face of trials.
Wetin Paul warn dem about still concern us today.		That warning is equally valid now.
Wetin dem go do if dem suppose to change am? Bible advise us sey make we no rush when we want choose wetin we go do.		God 's Word counsels us not to be hasty when we need to make an important decision.
Wetin this one teach us?		The lesson for us?
Wetin we go de do to show say we de produce fruit?		What activity makes up the essence of " bearing fruit "?
Wetin young people fit plan to use their life do?		What goals can young people work toward?
What if my pikin do wetin bad well well for eye after e baptize? '		What if my child gets baptized and then falls into serious sin? '
What of us?		What about us?
When Jesus come this earth, ' e leave everything ' for heaven.		In this regard, the Scriptures urge us to develop the same " mental attitude " that Jesus had.
When we get this one for mind, e go help us ' dey patient and dey happy as we dey endure. ' - Col.		Knowing this helps us " endure fully with patience and joy. " - Col.
When we know the things wey Satan get power to do, how that one go help us?		What advantage do we gain from knowing the extent of Satan 's influence?
Which other better way you fit help your children believe wetin Bible talk?		What should be an important part of your teaching?
Which question we go answer for this topic?		What questions will we consider in this article?
Why e good make we love our brothers and sisters?		Why is it important to have affection for our brothers?
Why e good make you plan to read the whole Bible finish?		Why is reading the entire Bible an excellent goal?
You dey see yourself as person wey dey mold?		Do you see yourself being molded in his caring hands?
How people wey don dey old go take help young people do more work for congregation, and why this one good?		First, how can older ones help younger ones take on increased responsibility, and why is this important?
For other culture, beard beard no be better thing and dem feel sey better Christian no suppose dey keep beard beard. - w16.09, p.		In other cultures and localities, beards are not considered acceptable for Christian ministers. - w16.09, p.
The story of Sister Nancy Yuen and Brother Harold King show sey na true. Dem put two of dem for prison because dem no gree leave.		This was certainly true of Sister Nancy Yuen and Brother Harold King, both of whom endured years of imprisonment for their faith.
Wetin Jesus talk show sey we fit get more joy.		You can compare your efforts at increasing joy to stoking a fire.
Wetin this story teach us?		What lesson can we learn from these accounts?
Any person wey e no go the school for religion and wey e no follow their tradition, na ordinary and useless person for their eye. ( Acts 4: 13, ftn. )		Yes, they considered anyone who had not studied at the rabbinic schools or who did not keep their traditions to be contemptible and ordinary.
Which advice Paul give Timothy?		What admonition did Paul give to Timothy?
Wetin we fit do to help new publishers to sabi talk with people like Jesus?		How can we help new publishers to converse with people as Jesus did?
Wetin we go learn for our next topic?		What will the following article discuss?
And all of dem dey among ' the new character ' wey Bible talk about.		This fruitage characterizes " the new personality. "
Jesus talk about am for the prayer wey dem dey call The Lord 's Prayer.		Jesus included in the model prayer the request to God: " Forgive us our sins. "
Na better example show, as e use im freedom help other people!		What a fine example of using his freedom for the benefit of others!
If we dey think about this kind question, e go help us know the kind person wey we really be.		Pondering the answers to such questions will help us to keep proving what we ourselves are.
Sometimes, our problem fit make us no see all the better things wey don do for us.		Sometimes we can become so consumed by our problems that we overlook the many blessings we have.
After that one, another type of resurrection go come happen. This time, na people wey go stay for paradise for this earth dem go resurrect.		Thereafter, a different type of resurrection will take place, a resurrection to life in an earthly paradise.
Muriel wey we talk about before talk sey, im and im husband comot from the congregation wey dem like because dem want make their pikin continue to serve well.		Muriel, quoted earlier, admits that she and her husband had to sacrifice their preferences for the spiritual benefit of their son.
And many people no go fit explain why e be sey everybody want enjoy life wey no get end. ( Eccl.		Also, people in general cannot explain why mankind has a strong desire to live forever.
And na when David dey run from King Saul, e know Abigail.		David met this married woman at a time when he was fleeing from King Saul.
Anne, wey dey 46 years, dey preach for Asia where dem ban our work.		Anne, now in her mid - 40 ' s, serves in Asia in a land where our work is restricted.
As dem dey reach where dem dey go, dem come see as sun dey shine for hill wey plant dey grow ontop. Brother Russell see two big ship wey dem never make finish.		Looming before Brother Russell were two massive ocean liners under construction, the ill - fated Titanic and her sister ship Olympic.
As we dey talk about dem, dey think about wetin you fit do to like dem more more.		As we do so, meditate on how you personally can deepen your love for these spiritual treasures.
Ask other people which Bible verse and topic wey don help dem.		Ask others what scriptures and articles they have found to be especially helpful and encouraging.
Bible Still Dey Change Your Life?		Appreciating as Our Potter, June
Bible study na one better way to listen to.		Personal study of the Bible is the prime way we listen to.
Bible talk sey: " Young man [ or woman ], dey happy as you still young, and make your mind dey sweet you as you young. " ( Eccl.		Rejoice, young man [ or woman ], while you are young, and let your heart be glad in the days of your youth.
But Jesus no leave like Adam. Jesus do only the things wey person wey no get sin for body suppose do, as want am.		But unlike Adam, Jesus lived up to the standard expected from a perfect man.
But if we want choose the kind thing wey go make happy, make we check wetin Bible talk about the matter and do am.		To make wise decisions that please, however, we must consider the laws and principles found in his written Word and comply with them.
But mek we self no forget to dey remember dem for our own prayer and mek we dey help dem.		But we too should support our brothers and pray for them.
Dem don already advertise this talk before Brother Russell come. Na about 300 people wey ready to learn come listen to this talk.		The advertised public talk, " The Overthrow of Satan 's Empire, " drew an " intelligent audience of about 300 " later that evening.
Dem write this brochure to help people know the different different way person go fit contribute, whether na now or later as part of their will.		The brochure was written to provide information on a variety of ways that gifts may be made now or later, such as through a bequest at death.
E come still talk sey: ' Make we dey use love grow for everything like Christ, wey be head. '		Let us by love grow up in all things into him who is the head, Christ.
E do research to make sure sey na the correct thing e dey learn from Bible, like people for Beroea wey Bible talk about.		I also met young Juan Ardanez who like the Beroeans eagerly did research to confirm the truthfulness of the Bible message.
E even get one time wey King Hezekiah carry shoulder. But e come later change. - 2 Chron.		Later, King Hezekiah too fell prey to haughtiness, though only temporarily. - 2 Chron.
E get one young brother wey im name na Christoph.		Relate an experience showing the benefits of humility.
E good make we look the matter well and pray about am to know whether we fit do the new work.		If the answer to one or both of these questions is no, perhaps there is someone else who might be in a better position to care for the assignment right now.
E happen to people for olden days. For example, Bible talk sey e get sometimes wey King David mind disturb am. ( Ps.		After all, on occasion, God - fearing servants of in the past, such as King David, had " anxious concern. "
E help them see say people wey they no be Jew still get good character.		Jesus had earlier prepared them for such an extensive assignment by drawing their attention to good qualities in foreigners.
E sey: ' Make una stop all this things. ' Make we talk about two of the bad character wey Paul talk for Bible.		We want to heed Paul 's clear instruction to Christians in his day: " You must put them all away from you. "
E still dey make family get peace of mind.		Families who obey them enjoy love, respect, and security.
E still talk about other people wey ' no want something wey go free dem, so that dem fit get the better resurrection. ' ( Heb.		Then he mentions others who " would not accept release by some ransom, in order that they might attain a better resurrection. "
For Pentecost 33 C.E., Christian wey dey Jerusalem that time, welcome all the new people wey join dem even though sey dem no be Jew.		At Pentecost 33 C.E., those living in Jerusalem extended hospitality to newly converted Christians from various lands.
For example, e give you life, im Word, and brothers and sisters for congregation.		Your life, your faith, the Bible, the congregation, and your wonderful hope for the future.
For example, when one brother dey return visit, e visit one old man wey don dey read our magazine for many years.		A brother made a return visit on an elderly gentleman who had read our magazines for a number of years.
For this one, person fit use Internet, ATM card or im phone take send money.		Donations via electronic bank transfer, debit card, or credit card.
For verse 20, give dem chance to show whether dem really love am.		In verse 20 we learn that gave them the precious opportunity to show him what was in their hearts.
Get am for mind sey, dey ' bless person wey no dey tight hand. '		We can be assured that " the generous person will be blessed. "
How we go take know person wey God spirit dey direct?		How can we identify a spiritual person?
How young men go behave if dem start to do the work wey the old people for congregation dey do?		How can younger men demonstrate a proper attitude as they take on the work of older brothers?
I dey enjoy the free time wey we take dey do other things together. '		And I enjoyed the leisure activities we shared in as a group. "
If we dey fear about how e go be to invite people come our house, wetin go help us?		What may alleviate worries about having guests?
If you be papa or mama, don bless you with big work. The work na to dey teach your children about and dey correct dem well.		As a parent, you have the weighty responsibility - and privilege - to bring up your children " in the discipline and admonition of. "
Im name na Luigi. One man jam im motor for back.		A vehicle rear - ended Luigi 's car.
people dey do like David. Dem dey try to carry body down.		Like David, 's people today strive to show humility.
tell dem to build some city wey person fit run go if e kill another person by mistake.		We learn the answers to those questions by considering the arrangement of cities of refuge in ancient Israel.
want make you be im friend.		wants you to be his friend.
Life fit be like that sometimes.		Life can be like that journey.
Life fit really tire person if nobody dey tell am better word wey go make am happy!		How devastating life without encouragement can be!
Make we see how the advice don take help other people.		To set the stage for doing so, let us consider some real - life situations.
Many of dem believe sey Baal dey protect dem. ( Num.		In many places, Baal was the local patron deity as well.
Many people wey come the convention don already dey preach the good news about God Kingdom.		Many at that convention had already been spreading the Kingdom good news.
Me and my sister wey im name na Dorothy start to preach when we dey six years.		My sister, Dorothy, and I became Kingdom publishers when we were six.
Meeting dey give us power so that we no go stop to serve.		We feel encouraged.
My papa come carry me because e no want leave me for there make dem no come kill me.		My father - not about to abandon me to the rebel forces - carried me.
Na about eight of us dey go the meeting.		About eight attended.
Na bribe be that.		Such gifts are simply improper.
Na so dey do; e dey sofri mold us. E dey use im advice mold us, and dey look wetin we go do.		Likewise, our Potter works closely and patiently with us, molding us with his advice and observing our response.
Na true sey if dem correct person, e dey pain. But if person no take the correction wey dem give am, wetin fit happen to am na im dey pain pass. ( Heb.		While discipline may be painful, there is something that is even more painful - the harm that may result from rejecting discipline.
No still forget sey you fit make mistake think sey person for congregation no treat you or another person well. We fit think like that because of the sin wey dey our body or because we no know everything about the matter.		On the other hand, you could mistakenly conclude that you have been a victim of injustice or that another member of the congregation has been.
Noah really do wetin show sey e get faith, and na this one make save im and im family when the heavy rain fall.		Yes, visible acts of faith led to the preservation of Noah and his family through the Flood.
Now, you think sey go happy as e dey see many people dey choose wetin no good and dey use the freedom wey e give dem take dey wicked other people?		Now think of how must feel as he watches so many people misuse their freedom to make choices in life even to the harm of others.
One brother for Britain wey be elder talk sey: " Plenty things fit dey worry person for mind when e dey prepare for im visitor.		An elder in Britain admits: " There can be a measure of nervousness in preparing for guests.
One elder wey im territory dey one village, dey use small time take check brothers and sisters when e dey preach.		While preaching, one elder would briefly visit the living in his rural territory to see how they were doing.
One of dem na Brother Eduard Varter. This brother baptize for 1924 for Germany, and e hold tight.		They included Eduard Varter, an exile who had been baptized in Germany in 1924.
Science people talk sey the number of stars for only our galaxy ( where earth and stars dey ) fit plenty reach 400 billion.		Scientists believe that our Milky Way galaxy alone may contain up to 400 billion stars.
Show sey person fit trust you.		Prove yourself trustworthy.
Small time, na people wey support only as King go remain for this earth.		Soon the earth will be filled with those who prefer 's sovereignty over any other.
So, how we go behave if do good thing for us or other people praise us for wetin we do?		In our case, if we have accomplished something worthwhile, could it be that is ' leaving us alone to put us to the test, ' allowing what is in our heart to surface?
So before e die, e give e many sons plenty gift. Maybe na because e no want make they fight Abijah, their brother. ( 2 Chron.		Before his death, he generously distributed gifts among his many sons, evidently to discourage any revolt against their brother Abijah, his successor.
So e good make we help dem see sey love dem and e dey feel for dem.		They need to sense 's love and compassion among their fellow Christians.
Some people talk sey to carry shoulder bad well well, sotey people wey dey carry shoulder no like to see this character for person body.		Some have said that inordinate pride is so distasteful that even the proud dislike it in others.
The Greek word wey Paul use, dey talk about person wey put all im mind for something sotey na only that thing e dey think about and plan.		The Greek word that Paul used means " to set one 's mind or heart upon something, to employ one 's faculty for thoughtful planning, w [ ith ] the emphasis upon the underlying disposition or attitude. "
The brothers and sisters know sey police dey put eye for their body. So dem come put person wey go help dem dey check if police dey come.		The brothers and sisters knew that the police kept a close watch on us, so the brothers posted a lookout.
The first day, my sisters write some things wey dem dey talk for the convention give me for paper; dem do am turn by turn.		On the first day of the convention, my sisters took turns writing notes in order to help me follow the program.
This one go help us dey as one, and e fit make visitors want join us make their light shine.		Your doing so will promote unity and may move visitors to want to share in letting their light shine.
This one mean sey the doctor no go come dey find where the person heart dey for im body.		So a surgeon does not have to search for a patient 's heart.
This one no dey surprise us at all!		Not at all!
This two topic talk about why Jesus need to die for us, the better things wey im sacrifice bring, and how we fit show sey we like this gift wey better pass all the gift wey don give us.		These two articles examine why the ransom became necessary, what it accomplished, and how we can show heartfelt gratitude for this most loving of all gifts from our heavenly Father.
To read Bible never sweet me like this before. "		I have never been this excited over Bible reading. "
We be the same! " E come reach their congregation turn to invite oyibo people wey dey English congregation. The sister cook food and e invite some of dem come im house.		So when it was the turn of her Xhosa - language congregation to extend hospitality to the English - language congregation, she prepared a meal and invited some visitors.
We do our best to care for our son, and we make sure say we still care for the other four children.		We threw ourselves into caring for his needs, while not neglecting our four other children.
We fit come back one day. We come go Colorado, and na there my papa and mama dey stay.		We settled on the western slope of Colorado, where my parents lived.
We go still see how we fit take show all this character when we dey preaching.		We will also consider how we can demonstrate these aspects in our ministry.
We happy to see the better thing wey come out when we ' win bad thing with good thing. ' - Rom.		We were happy to see the good that can result when we try to " keep conquering the evil with the good. " - Rom.
We learn sey, go fit do wetin we no even think sey go happen.		can do the unexpected, so we need not be anxious in the face of trials.
We no dey shake because we know sey go help us.		We can have unwavering confidence that will act in our behalf.
We no go be friend again if we begin pursue the things wey ' people wey no know God dey find by all means. '		Trying to accumulate all " the things the nations are eagerly pursuing " would damage our relationship with.
Wetin dem don tell us about our Bible student?		What direction have we received regarding Bible students?
Wetin e mean for person to know where e suppose do reach, and wetin e no mean?		What is modesty, and what is it not?
Wetin go help us know how we like enjoyment reach?		How might we evaluate our pursuit of pleasure?
When I dey holiday, I dey follow am go preaching.		In that way, I learned a lot about the Bible and how to teach others what it says.
When my papa read the book finish, im faith for God come strong again.		When my father read those books, his faith in God was awakened.
Why e good make we learn the song wey dey for our new songbook?		Why should we become familiar with the songs in our new songbook?
Why to Wash Hand Come Be Problem?		Where Can You Find Comfort?
Yes, anytime wey want use us reach, we ready to do everything wey we fit do to ' be everything to everybody. '		Yes, we are determined, for as long as wills, to be " all things to people of all sorts. "
You go let am know sey na one of the things wey you value pass be that? E fit be sey you get hope to survive great tribulation, and stay this earth forever.		We have good reasons to include the resurrection as a key teaching even if we personally hope to survive the great tribulation and live on earth forever.
You still get this year invitation wey you fit give people before Memorial?		Do you still have some printed copies of this year 's invitation that you could distribute before the Memorial?
Where spirit dey, freedom dey there. ' - 2 COR.		Where the spirit of is, there is freedom. " - 2 COR.
Use better example.		Use good illustrations.
Bible no tell us wetin this thing ' wey no good ' be, but we dey sure sey no be just any small mistake wey the wife do. - Lev.		What was " indecent " is not defined, but it is reasonable to assume that it did not include petty issues. - Lev.
No matter sey pikin love im papa and mama, e go still leave dem go marry and start im own family.		Though they loved their parents, sons and daughters would leave them to get married and form new households.
Who be the woman wey dey inside the container, and why the angel cover am?		What does the woman inside the ephah container represent, and why is she confined and sealed away?
How we go take praise with song, and who suppose show better example?		How should we sing praises to, and who should take the lead?
Wetin help Joseph when im oga wife want sleep with am?		What enabled Joseph to respond as he did when Potiphar 's wife tried to seduce him?
Why elders fit change wetin dem don first agree to do?		Why and how should we view past decisions?
Matt. 24: 14 ) The next example wey Jesus talk about the farmer help us to understand - am clear say, na the preaching work be the fruit.		Jesus ' illustration of a sower confirms this conclusion.
We dey learn to put other people matter before our own.		We learn to put others first.
Luke 8: 1; Acts 5: 42; 20: 20 ) This one show sey dem want make everybody hear this good news.		The preaching work included searching for deserving ones from house to house.
Na im make Paul come warn dem sey: ' I dey fear sey, as the snake take use cunning - cunning deceive Eve, person fit spoil una mind. Una no go come dey use better mind and clean mind follow Christ. ' - 2 Cor.		That is why Paul gave this warning: " I am afraid that somehow, as the serpent seduced Eve by its cunning, your minds might be corrupted away from the sincerity and the chastity that are due the Christ. " - 2 Cor.
Even when person talk how something dey pain am reach, other people fit still no really understand wetin e dey try talk.		Even when someone does express how he feels, it is not always easy for others to understand what he is trying to say.
E good make we dey read dem, study dem and think well about dem!		How wise it is to read them, meditate on them, and study them!
Wetin Bible talk about promise wey people make?		What is a vow?
Another thing be sey, dey always use love and better mind choose wetin e go do.		Furthermore, always exercises his freedom in harmony with his attributes of love and justice.
Matt. 28: 19, 20 ) dey bless this kind training. And this training go fit help dem train other people to become Jesus disciple.		blesses this kind of training, which equips students to make yet more disciples of Christ.
This one go make us near more more.		As a result, our relationship with deepens.
True true, people wey dey pursue money or wey dey put mind for sex wey no clean for God eye, dey enter trouble. - 1 Cor.		Indeed, those who have spent their lives on pursuing material things or gratifying sexual desires have ended up disappointed and deeply hurt. - 1 Cor.
All of dem still go the convention.		We know from the Bible that there have been times when did not directly intervene to protect his servants.
All the Bible story wey I read when I young come make sense.		The Bible stories that I had learned from when I was very young finally made sense to me.
And Priscilla and Aquila use their time talk ' more things about God and explain am well well ' to people.		And Priscilla and Aquila used their time to explain " the way of God more accurately " to others.
And make the love wey we get for and our brothers continue to burn like fire!		Rather, may we continue to have intense love for, his Word, and our brothers.
And wetin dem dey talk dey pain well well. Dem talk sey I be small pikin, I no go ever get sense and sey I too fat.		They say that I 'm immature, that I 'll never learn, and that I 'm fat.
And wetin dey my mind na to dey preach about God Kingdom.		And I wanted to preach the good news of the Kingdom.
And when dem dey share property, na im own still dey many pass. - Gen.		He was also the son who inherited a double portion of property. - Gen.
And which better thing we go gain?		And what good results can we obtain from doing so?
Barber, one brother wey use all im mind and power preach that time, talk sey dem try help some traveling overseers still continue for their work. E still sey: ' We continue to share The Watch Tower and send am go Canada where dem first ban am.		Barber, who was active during that time, recalled: " We succeeded in keeping a few traveling overseers going and in keeping The Watch Tower in circulation and having it sent into Canada where it was banned.
Because e don old, e no want be wahala for the king.		Because of his advanced age, he told David that he did not want to become a burden to the king.
Because every government get their law about tax, e good to ask lawyer or person wey fit advice you about tax matter before you choose how you go take contribute.		Since legal requirements and tax laws vary, it is important to consult qualified tax and legal advisers before choosing the best way to donate.
Because of the simple answer wey our children de give from their heart, some people don see say we get the truth. - 1 Cor.		Their simple, heartfelt expressions have sometimes prompted newly interested ones to recognize the ring of truth. - 1 Cor.
Because you no dey carry shoulder up as you dey do your work for congregation, brothers and sisters go love you and thank you well well.		And because of your humble efforts in the congregation, you will be rewarded by receiving the affection, appreciation, and support of others who love.
Bible talk sey: " Noah do wetin like.		Noah found favor in the eyes of.
But I no worry.		But it didn 't matter.
But before I go talk why we dey there, make I first tell una about myself.		Let me tell you some personal history so that you will understand why.
But e get some sin wey no be part of wetin Jesus dey talk.		The three steps Jesus outlined here are applicable only where these conditions exist.
But e no punish dem, e try see if dem don change the kind bad mind wey dem get.		Instead, he tested his brothers to find out if they had changed their disposition.
But e still talk sey if we endure the problem, we go win.		But he also said that if we endure, we can win.
But if e get matter wey hard us to know wetin we go do, we fit meet elders for congregation make dem advice us or brothers and sisters wey don mature. ( Titus 2: 3 - 5; Jas.		In the case of weighty decisions, though, it is sometimes advisable to seek counsel from the elders or the advice of other experienced Christians.
But now, things don bad well well.		But we live in critical times.
But what if wetin dey do you, na wetin do one brother wey im name na Aaron?		But what if you feel the way a brother named Aaron once did?
But when e no gree join military work, dem come talk sey dem go send am go prison for one and half years. Dem carry am go nine different prison.		But when he refused to perform military service, he was sentenced to one and a half years behind bars and was held in nine different prisons.
Carry me waka for that road wey your truth dey and make you teach me, because na you be the God wey dey save me.		Cause me to walk in your truth and teach me, for you are my God of salvation.
Cool Temper - Na Better Sense, Dec.		Chapters and Verses, No. 2
David beg sey, make e ' no let am overdo things. ' ( Ps.		Wisely, David asked to " hold [ him ] back from presumptuous acts. "
Dem dey maintain their Kingdom Hall well, and e dey make people talk better thing about		The well - maintained Kingdom Hall serves as a powerful witness to
Dem fit dey fear sey na their voice go loud pass or their voice no go sweet for people ear.		It may be fear of standing out or of possibly sounding unpleasant to others.
Dem leave their Papa, and dem no come dey follow im law wey dey protect dem; na their own dem come dey do. - Gen.		They rejected as their Father and estranged themselves from the security of his protective rule. - Gen.
Dem no know where to praise dem reach.		They place religious and political leaders, sports figures, entertainment stars, and other celebrities on pedestals, often considering them to be almost superhuman.
E come still sey, ' when God talk, dem dey melt. ' ( Ps.		He adds that " sends out his word, and they melt. "
E dey make person get long throat.		It creates in us a yearning for a lot of material possessions.
E do im Bethel work well, but that one no make am play with preaching.		Brother Peterson did his work at Bethel well but never neglected the field ministry.
E don pass 50 years now, but I still dey Japan dey do missionary work since that time. '		That was over 50 years ago.
FOR book of Matthew, Bible talk sey: ' Jesus enter the temple and e drive all the people wey dey sell and buy things comot from the temple. E trowey the table of people wey dey change money and the bench of people wey dey sell bird wey dem dey call dove.		ACCORDING to the account of Matthew 's Gospel, " Jesus entered the temple and threw out all those selling and buying in the temple, and he overturned the tables of the money changers and the benches of those selling doves.
For Bible, dey teach us wetin fit help us get life.		He provides lifesaving instructions in his Word.
For book of Daniel, Bible talk about some young people wey be Jew. Their name na Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael and Azariah.		In the book of Daniel, we read about the Hebrew youths Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah.
For example, this world de make people believe say, if person get money and gather plenty property, e go dey happy. ( Prov.		For example, this system often teaches people that the best way to be happy is to pursue money and gather many possessions.
For example, we go see wetin de move to make peace, and why e value peace.		For example, we see how he remains peaceable and why peace is so important to him.
Government for this world go soon join hand together to destroy God people. ( Ezek. 38: 2, 10 - 12; Dan. 11: 40, 44, 45; Rev.		Very soon the political powers of Satan 's world will form a coalition that is bent on the destruction of God 's people.
How take bless im servant for Bible time?		How did bless his servants in the past?
How take show sey e understand this sister problem?		How did show his understanding of her problems?
How hope take be like anchor?		How does hope serve as an anchor?
How papa and mama fit help their children get the sense wey go give dem life?		How can parents help their children to become " wise for salvation "?
How we go take join hand to make the congregation clean?		How can we contribute to the congregation 's cleanness?
How we go take show sey we happy as don show us truth from Bible?		How can we show appreciation for knowing the truth?
How we take know sey Bible fit still dey change our life?		How can we be sure that the Bible has power to continue changing our life?
How your conscience fit be like steering?		How can your conscience serve as a moral compass?
I know sey, na make am happen like this.		I am convinced that God wanted that to happen.
If person never baptize, e mean sey no go hold am for wetin e dey do?		Does delaying baptism make one less accountable to?
If you dey practice am for house, e go make you no fear when you dey sing, and you go fit dey sing from your heart.		By practicing the songs at home, you can learn to sing them with confidence and heartfelt expression.
If you no fit do this one now, you fit start to make friend with publishers for your area, wey come from another place.		If that is not possible right now, then begin associating in your own country with publishers from another ethnic group.
dey use angels help dem to show sey, true true, na im dey lead im people.		was supporting those men with his superhuman agents. Yes, was leading his people.
no dey happy with person wey dey take Im work play?		that takes no delight in a person who neglects His work?
Jesus talk about am by imself for one story about one man wey get farm.		Jesus himself made such a connection.
Joseph na Mary husband, and Heli na Mary papa. So na because of that one Luke write sey Joseph na Heli pikin. - Luke 3: 23.		So when Luke lists Joseph and describes him as the son of Heli, it was understood to mean that Joseph was Heli 's son - in - law. - Luke 3: 23.
Na because we dey preach the correct message wey be, good news about God Kingdom.		Because we are preaching the right message, the good news of the Kingdom.
Na eight pikin my mama born and na me be the senior.		We were eight children, and I was the oldest.
Na this time I work with Etta Huth, one sister wey really get sense.		In this connection, I was privileged to serve with Etta Huth, a truly wise sister.
Na true sey the Bible Students no really understand wetin e mean to comot hand for war matter, the way we understand am today. But dem know sey e no good to kill person.		While they did not understand every aspect of Christian neutrality as clearly as we do today, the Bible Students did know one thing: The Bible forbids the taking of human life.
Now, when I dey pray, I fit pray to.		Now when I pray, I can pray to.
Person wey know something dey fit learn things and remember am.		A person who has knowledge accumulates information, or facts.
Proverbs 19: 18 tell us the answer. E sey: " Correct your pikin when hope still dey, make e no come be sey na you kill am. "		Proverbs 19: 18 states: " Discipline your son while there is hope, and do not become responsible for his death. "
Sense dey this thing wey dem do?		Was their honesty worth the effort?
Since 1999, I don get the honor to serve as member of the Governing Body		Since 1999, I have been privileged to serve on the Governing Body
So, make we ask ourself: ' I dey allow my body or my mind dey make me do bad thing?		Ask yourself: ' At times, do I let my imperfect body or mind point me in a bad direction and then go there?
So make we dey plan our life to fit work more for.		Instead, we should pursue spiritual goals.
Sometimes, if we dey give talk near their church, dem go dey ring their church bell loud well well so that people no go hear wetin we dey talk.		Or they would try to drown out our program by ringing the church bells whenever talks were held near their churches.
Tessie talk sey e dey do am like sey im na wayo person because e like to dey gamble well well.		She said that she felt like a hypocrite because she enjoyed gambling.
That time, e just enter Bethel for Britain. When e dey preach one day, e meet one man wey dey around 50 years.		While preaching from door to door, he met a bearded middle - aged man.
The World Book Encyclopedia talk sey the law wey dey different different place dey give people freedom, and e still dey tell dem where dem go do reach.		For this reason, The World Book Encyclopedia states: " The laws of every organized society form a complicated pattern of balanced freedoms and restrictions. "
The brother talk say, " When I reach the office, one woman welcome me. Then I notice say the woman dress like people for one tribe wey I don learn their language.		When I arrived at the reception desk, " he relates, " I concluded by the receptionist 's manner of dress that she belonged to a tribe whose language I had learned.
The light for their lamp dey shine like star as dem dey waka on top the hill dey come.		Their oil lamps were like twinkling stars coming down the hillsides.
The song really sweet me, so I come stay.		The song really impressed me, so I stayed.
This kind training go help us fit dey do things the way want and dey see things the way e dey see dem.		We will develop good judgment by modestly learning to see things from 's viewpoint.
This one dey show the kind person wey be and wetin e fit do. Our faith no complete unless we dey sure sey go bless people wey dey try use all their mind find am.		Our faith is not complete unless we are firmly convinced that God will reward those who earnestly seek him, for " faith is the assured expectation of what is hoped for. "
This one go help us fit learn all the things wey go teach us, and to do wetin e want without mistake.		Furthermore, God will make our minds and bodies perfect, so that we will be able to absorb his teaching and do his will flawlessly.
Today, all of us dey join hand warn people. - Matt.		In turn, all of Christ 's domestics have a share in sounding the warning. - Matt.
Una fit go check the picture wey dey page 10 to 20 for inside our brochure The Origin of Life - Five Questions Worth Asking.		Together, you might even look at some of the illustrations on pages 10 to 20 of our brochure The Origin of Life - Five Questions Worth Asking.
We fit still fall for this wahala when we no happy or when only us dey.		At such times, we may yearn for someone who makes us feel needed.
We fit talk sey this world just be like that man wey go soon die. How?		In a sense, today 's system of things is like that man on death row.
Wetin Paul warn Christian about?		Paul alerted fellow Christians about what dangers?
Wetin all this people talk show sey na better thing for God spirit to dey direct person.		Expressions like those portray spirituality in a favorable way.
Wetin be some things wey we fit dey think about pass?		What sort of things might we include when asking ourselves, ' What is my key interest? '
Wetin go help us na to really love.		But more to the point: Will such a false claim hold any appeal for us?
Wetin make us want learn about some things wey people dey talk?		Why will we consider examples of worldly thinking?
Wetin we go do to show sey we dey make our brothers and sisters hand strong?		In what practical ways can we strengthen the hands of our brothers and sisters?
Wetin we know sey go do?		What confidence can we have in?
What about Witness people?		What has been the record of 's?
When we dey think about the kind life wey we don live, we know sey don show us im favor for different different way.		When reflecting on our life course, we readily admit that we have experienced 's undeserved kindness in many, many ways.
Whether we be brother or sister, make we do everything wey we suppose do to make sure sey we no play with any assignment or work wey dem give us for congregation.		Whether we are brothers or sisters, we need to do our best to care for any theocratic assignment we receive.
Why e be like that? Dem hear wetin God tell dem?		How is that so, and did that first couple respond?
Why e no good make people take their marriage play like people for this world?		Why must Christians not adopt the world 's casual attitude toward marriage?
You fit come ask sey, ' How I fit train my student to dey do personal Bible study?		You may ask, ' How can I train my student to study the Bible regularly? '
You fit stop to dey worry about many things if you follow wetin apostle Paul talk for Bible. E sey: ' Make wetin una get dey reach una.		You can avoid much anxiety by heeding the apostle Paul 's inspired counsel to be " content with the present things. "
Young people, make una dey draw body near people wey dey serve well for your family and for congregation.		Young ones, draw close to faithful older ones in your family and in the congregation and learn how good has been to them.
Dem go give water to person wey dey give other people water. ' - Prov.		Whoever refreshes others will himself be refreshed. " - Prov.
When you dey show sey you no dey carry shoulder up, God go support and show you favor.		But as you cultivate humility, you will be on a path that results in God 's favor and support.
That night, send one angel wey kill 185,000 Assyria soldier. - 2 Ki.		He then sent an angel who destroyed 185,000 Assyrians in one night! - 2 Ki.
Wetin we go learn go make their marriage work, help dem enjoy am and help dem to dey waka with im people for the road wey dey carry people go life wey no go end. - Matt.		In his precious Word, has given us what we need in order to have a successful and happy marriage as we keep on walking with his people on the road to everlasting life. - Matt.
no want make people die but, e want make dem get life.		wants people to live, not die.
Sometimes our greeting fit be only smile or we wave person.		At times, we may be able only to smile or wave as a greeting.
[CONTENT_REMOVED]		See paragraphs 8 - 11 )
Today, if person sey e no want marry or born pikin, e no mean sey e no dey obey God.		Today, it is not against 's will for people to choose to be single or to be married but remain childless.
How you dey feel as dey let you contribute to support im work?		How do you feel about the privilege you have to support the Kingdom work?
Why we want talk about dem now?		Why do we review such teachings now?
Everybody wey do wetin like go get life wey no go end because of Jesus sacrifice.		The ransom gives all faithful humans the prospect of everlasting life.
When Paul dey for the temple, the Jews riot and dem nearly kill Paul.		At the temple, the Jews rioted and wanted to kill Paul.
Tim. 2: 15 ) Wetin you go do make the way you de use Bible better pass before?		How can you improve your skills?
True true, want make you happy when you dey young.		Yes, wants you as a young person to have a joyful heart.
Wetin we dey do go show sey our prayer really come from our mind.		We need to act in harmony with our prayers.
Paul happy as e dey help other people. Wetin e do still make happy and e bless am. - Acts 20: 24, 35.		Paul learned through experience that sacrificing oneself in behalf of others brings not only personal satisfaction but also - and more important - 's blessing and approval. - Acts 20: 24, 35.
Which gift John 15: 16 talk about?		What gift is mentioned at John 15: 16?
John 8: 28 ) As we de show and Jesus say we love them, them go continue to love us.		In response to our expression of love, and Jesus keep us in their love.
But dem fit still pity for am. Dem build six city wey person fit run go if e kill somebody by mistake.		Mercifully, however, he was allowed to flee from the avenger of blood to one of the six cities of refuge.
After we talk about am with dem, dem go come gree for wetin talk.		After we reasoned with them, they would be satisfied with 's thinking on matters.
All this things dey make dem happy, and e dey make their mind come down. "		Those spontaneous moments are so valuable and bring much comfort.
Amebo or aproko be like fuel wey dem add join fire. E fit spoil matter more more.		It can cause a problem to get out of control, making the problem worse.
And dem still dey meet other publishers wey go tell dem wetin dem fit talk.		We also ask other for suggestions. "
And other people still feel sey dem no get time to train people.		Some may reason that they do not have time to train someone else.
And we know sey great tribulation dey come for front.		We face the greatest tribulation the world has ever seen.
Another brother wey senior me still teach me sey, for person to still happy when e dey give people something, e need to dey patient sometimes.		Another older brother taught me that to find happiness in giving, we sometimes have to endure patiently.
As promise for Bible, how e fit help us if we get problem?		As promised in the Bible, how may " make the way out " of trials for us?
As e dey find where e go stay make e fit hear wetin dey happen for inside, e come see one place wey e fit climb go ontop the house. The place high reach 16 feet ( 4.8 m ).		Searching for a spot outside the hall where he could hear what was going on inside, he discovered a place to climb up onto the roof, about 16 feet ( 4.8 m ) high.
As you dey think about wetin you dey learn, e hungry you to learn more.		Meditating on one Bible verse after another likely added to your fund of knowledge, something that enriched you spiritually.
Because [ God ] don talk sey: " I no go ever leave you, and I no go ever forget you. "		Paul adds: " For [ God ] has said: ' I will never leave you, and I will never abandon you. '
Because of this one, many congregation get brothers and sisters wey come from different different country wey dey speak different different language.		The result is that many congregations have become multiracial, multicultural, and multilingual, giving praise to.
But, Nathanael come change.		However, Nathanael was moved to change his thinking.
But, we dey try do everything wey we fit do to comot hand from small sin as some people dey call am? If we do am, we dey show sey ' e dey come from our mind to follow ' wetin Bible talk. - Rom.		However, are we also determined to be " obedient from the heart " by doing our best to avoid sins that some would view as less serious? - Rom.
But I feel say I no fit change my promise.		I had some regrets about making that promise, but I felt that I could not back out.
But at last, Jonah still go Nineveh.		But in the end Jonah did go to Nineveh.
But before that time, we no go forget the things wey e don do wey show sey e get faith. " " Mouth no fit talk how e pain you reach. But we dey wait for the time wey go bring am come life again.		While words fail to capture the pain of losing a loved one, we look forward to the time when words will fail to capture the joy of having our heavenly Father return your dear one to you.
But e get conscience. So papa and mama need to dey correct am so that im conscience go dey work well.		They are born with the faculty of conscience, but it needs to be educated, or disciplined.
But e never tey when dem start to talk about am. Why?		What was so special about this find?
But my life change because of the things wey I start to learn.		But I began to learn some things that turned my life around.
But na ( 1 ) sin wey be sey dem go fit settle by theirself and na still ( 2 ) sin wey fit make elders disfellowship person if dem no settle the matter.		Rather, it was ( 1 ) a sin that could be settled between the individuals concerned but it was also ( 2 ) a sin serious enough to merit disfellowshipping if not settled.
But nobody ready to hear wetin dem dey talk. Jesus talk sey this small number of correct Christians wey remain be like that plant wey e name na wheat.		Even so, a small number of anointed wheatlike Christians were doing their best to worship God, but their voices were being drowned out.
But people help me well well.		But I received a lot of help.
Cool temper fit stop quarrel.		A mild temper can defuse tension.
Dem believe sey the way take dey do things, na im better pass.		Jephthah and his daughter fully trusted in and his way of doing things.
E do am because na wetin e don already promise Abraham im friend. ( Gen.		was being true to a promise that he had made centuries earlier to his friend Abraham.
E get one fight wey dem stab me six times; blood comot for my body.		In a brawl, I received six stab wounds and almost bled to death. "
E love im pikin. But now, Hannah no go fit dey see am everyday as e dey grow.		She dearly loved her little boy, but now she would not be able to have everyday contact with him during his boyhood.
E pass 50 years wey the four of us take work together.		The four of us worked together for over 50 years.
E still talk sey: ' After, dem come invite me go Gilead School but I come dey fear because I no want go where I no know and where my friends no dey.		Later, I received an invitation to attend Gilead School, but I feared going into the unknown without my friends.
E tell dem sey ' if anybody want follow am, ' the person go stop to do wetin e want. E go ready to suffer and continue to follow Jesus. - Matt.		In a discussion with his apostles and other disciples, he said: " If anyone wants to come after me, let him disown himself and pick up his torture stake and keep following me. " - Matt.
Even the police dem for the prison dey respect dem.		Even their prison guards have come to respect them.
Even though sey the person wey dey give the talk no use microphone, everybody for inside the hall hear wetin e talk. E give the talk for one hour thirty minutes, and everybody listen.		Even without the use of sound equipment, the speaker 's voice carries to every part of the hall, holding the audience 's attention for one and a half hours.
For December 1966, I come be branch overseer and I handle many court matter.		In December 1966, I was appointed branch overseer and spent much time on legal matters.
For example, we fit sitdown think about how we see wetin Jesus talk for Matthew 6: 33.		For example, we might examine our view of Jesus ' words recorded at Matthew 6: 33.
For example: Person wey want climb mountain wey high well well, suppose take one day chop three or four days food.		To illustrate: To climb Mount Everest, a person needs about 6,000 calories a day. That is much more than the average person needs.
For the part of Bible wey be Greek Scriptures, e get other example of people wey God resurrect. And na God servants do the miracle.		In the Christian Greek Scriptures, we also read that resurrections took place in the presence of God 's representatives.
God holy spirit fit give Paul power when e dey weak.		God 's holy spirit could supply the power that Paul lacked.
How? Learn to use sense ask people question to know wetin dey their mind, and listen to dem when dem dey answer you.		Learn to be interested in people by tactfully asking their opinion and listening to their response.
How fit help you if you no come get work again?		How might help you if you lose your job?
How papa and mama fit train their children to follow way?		How can parents raise their children in the discipline of?
How we go take do this one?		How can we do this?
How we go take show sey we get real love when we dey help people?		How can we show genuine love when we offer hospitality?
How you think sey e go do Abraham for body when bring am come life again for paradise?		But just imagine Abraham 's joy when he is resurrected back to a paradise earth.
I come tell myself sey, I go try well well to make sure sey I do God work. "		I decided to work harder at acquiring spiritual riches. "
I go make person wey go help am, wey go make am complete. ' ( Gen.		I am going to make a helper for him, as a complement of him. "
I go report give police when one man threaten us, but the police sey, " Wetin you think before? "		When a man threatened us with violence, I complained to a policeman, who said, " Well, what do you expect? "
I know you, I know wetin don happen to you, I know wetin dey your mind - and I love you. '		I know you, I know your sins, I know your heart - and I love you. '
I never hear about some of this language before. When dem print the book dem finish, dem go send am go different different place for the world.		I had never heard of many of the languages but was happy to know that tens of thousands of magazines were being sent to far - flung places.
I no happy at all and I feel say they don troway me.		I felt emotionally numb and abandoned.
I sey, " Yes, " even if I never preach before.		Yes, " I said, although I had never preached before.
If e be like that, you believe sey when time reach go handle the matter, even if na to disfellowship the person?		In such situations, will you have confidence that will in time judge such wrongdoers, perhaps removing them from the congregation?
If e run go any of the city, the person wey get right to kill am no go fit kill am.		There, he could find protection.
If na so, Bible talk why e good make dem no end their marriage.		Under those circumstances, the Bible gives good reasons why they should remain together.
If people wey don marry dey first do wetin want, dem go enjoy their marriage more ( Check paragraph 17 )		Giving priority to spiritual matters can increase the happiness of your marriage ( See paragraph 17 )
If pilot want carry im plane reach where e dey go, e go need to follow where dem sey make e pass.		To reach a certain destination safely, he usually must follow a preapproved flight path.
If to sey God no resurrect Jesus, e for no dey rule as King for heaven. And all the things wey we dey teach about am for be waste.		Had Christ not been resurrected, he would not be our ruling King, and our teaching about Christ 's rule would be in vain.
If we dey show sey we value all our meeting, we dey give more reason to keep our name for im book. And if our name dey that book, we go get life wey no go end. - Mal.		When we show by our actions that meetings for worship are important to us, we give added reason to keep our name in his " book of remembrance " - " the book of life " - in which the names of those who are in line to attain to everlasting life are inscribed. - Mal.
Instead, Bible talk sey: " make everything wey e do get head. " - Gen.		On the contrary: " made whatever [ Joseph ] did successful. " - Gen.
Instead, e talk for Bible sey: " Stop to vex and trowey hot temper; no vex make you no go do wetin bad. " ( Ps.		Rather, he wrote: " Let go of anger and abandon rage; do not become upset and turn to doing evil. "
no be the kind judge wey dey find how e go take punish people.		is not a heartless judge who is eager to punish his servants.
no go ever forget wetin all this brothers and sisters don do.		He will never forget the loving sacrifices of all these faithful ones.
Jesus tell them say: " Make wuna continue to produce plenty fruit, because this one de bring my Father honor. "		Jesus told his apostles: " My Father is glorified in this, that you keep bearing much fruit. "
Like Joseph, make we no do anything wey go spoil our friendship with.		In a similar way, we must cherish and guard our relationship with.
Many advice dey Bible wey fit help Christian choose better cloth wey dem go wear.		God 's Word contains principles that help Christians make good decisions about how to dress.
Many congregation join this arrangement. The plenty letter wey people send go Bethel, show sey better thing come out from inside.		Hundreds of congregations took part, and the branch office received many good reports about this arrangement, even from outsiders.
Me and other pioneers enter one machine wey get something wey be like small motor for the side		With fellow pioneers on a motorcycle and sidecar
Mek we come learn four things wey go fit help us ready.		Let us consider four things we can do to prepare.
My papa no join Witness the time wey me and my mama join.		Father did not accept the truth when Mother and I did.
My pikin don really know reach to give am im life?		Does he or she have adequate knowledge to make a valid dedication?
Na sey make dem build this kind city to help this kind people.		While in the city, he was safe and secure under 's protection.
Na because God love us well well.		The reason is God 's incomparable love.
Na im dey cook for us. We dey call am Harry Peterson because e dey hard us to call im real name wey be Papargyropoulos.		Our cook was Harry Peterson; it was easier for us to use that last name than his real one, Papargyropoulos.
Na real love dey make people know correct Christians.		Genuine love identifies true Christians.
Na so e still be today. If we put God Kingdom first for our life, go make sure sey we get the things wey we need. - Matt.		Likewise, we trust that if we seek first the Kingdom, will make sure that we have what we need. - Matt.
Nadia mama fall break hand and e injure for head. The mama dey stay for France, and im name na Marie - Madeleine.		Nadia 's mother, Marie - Madeleine, who lived in France, fell and broke her arm and injured her head.
Nobody fit collect am from us.		No person or power can take it away from us.
Notice say the prison guard change e mind and beg for help only after the earthquake.		Note this: The jailer had a change of heart and asked for help only after the earthquake struck.
Paul talk about one way wey we fit continue to get strong love for.		One principal way to keep our love for strong is stated by Paul himself.
Paul tell the elders wey dey Ephesus congregation wetin e be, when e talk sey: ' But I no take my life like sey na anything to me, so far I go fit finish this race wey I don start and the work wey the Lord Jesus give me, to preach well about the good news of God favor. ' - Acts 20: 24.		Paul told the elders of the congregation in Ephesus what it included, stating: " I do not consider my own life of any importance to me, if only I may finish my course and the ministry that I received from the Lord Jesus, to bear thorough witness to the good news of the undeserved kindness of God. " - Acts 20: 24.
People wey dey serve God dey always happy because dem like to help other people.		His servants are happy because they focus on helping others.
Remember sey, one day we go do the last Memorial.		Remember, someday the Memorial we observe will be the final one.
Serve well well as " better servant wey don get God favor. " - 1 Pet.		Serve zealously as " fine stewards of God 's undeserved kindness. " - 1 Pet.
So I greet the woman for that language.		So I greeted her in her own tongue.
So because e dey pity us when things start to worry us for mind, e ' go fit help us ' ' when we need help. '		As heavenly King, Jesus continues to have and show empathy.
Solomon no do the thing wey want. Because of that one, don talk say the kingdom go divide. - 1 Ki.		Because of Solomon 's unfaithfulness, God had already indicated that the kingdom would be split. - 1 Ki.
Some of us fit dey think sey the small small money wey we dey contribute no mean anything.		We may feel that our small donations do not mean much.
Sometimes, e get some things wey we no even get for mind, but go just do am for us.		Sometimes he surprises us by doing the unexpected.
The Watchtower come talk sey: " Better Christian go think about this things and wetin Bible talk about how we suppose value life. This one go help am know whether e good or bad to use IUD. " - Ps.		That article concluded: " The sincere Christian concerned about the propriety of using an IUD should seriously weigh such information in the light of a Bible - based respect for the sanctity of life. " - Ps.
The book still talk wetin the farmer fit do, so that dem go fit pay am back for the bad thing wey dem do am.		The Digest considers the legal remedies available to the owner, or tenant farmer, in order to obtain compensation from the perpetrator for the loss suffered.
The first thing wey you go do na to pray make give you sense and help you understand the matter.		First, pray for wisdom and discernment.
The first time wey apostle Paul visit the place wey dem dey call Lystra na 47 C.E.		It was likely in 47 C.E., during the apostle Paul 's first visit to Lystra, that Timothy was introduced to Christianity.
The night before dem kill Jesus, e tell Peter sey: " Simon, Simon, look!		On the night before his death, Jesus told the apostle Peter: " Simon, Simon, look!
The preaching work na number one thing to am. Paul talk sey: " All the other people dey find only wetin good for dem, no be wetin Jesus want. " ( Phil.		Contrasting Timothy 's example with that of others, Paul said: " All the others are seeking their own interests, not those of Jesus Christ. "
The truth be sey, all of us wey dey serve suppose dey patient.		Actually, patience is important for all Christians.
Their senior daughter wey im name na Livija start to dey pioneer when e finish secondary school.		Livija, the eldest daughter, became a regular pioneer as soon as she finished high school.
They no serve.		Neither of them served.
Think as dem happy reach, when dem invite dem go 126th class for Gilead School!		So how happy they were when they received an invitation to attend the 126th class of Gilead School!
This people get mind!		The church was horrified.
We fit talk to God for prayer.		Approaching God 's throne through prayer.
We go still learn wetin we fit do if we no want make that kind thing happen to us and how we go gain from all the things wey dey give us.		We will consider how we can avoid falling into that trap, and we will learn how to benefit from all the spiritual food available to us.
We go talk about some people for Bible wey control theirself and some wey no control theirself.		Then we will learn from good examples and bad ones recounted in the Bible.
Wetin I learn that time help me know sey na when person dey give people something, e dey happy pass when dem give am. - Matt.		I learned a lot about the happiness of giving in those early days. - Matt.
Wetin get for mind for human being?		What does want for mankind?
Wetin be the things wey servant must fight with?		What challenges must servants of confront?
Wetin make let this kind thing happen to am?		Why did allow this to happen to Paul?
Wetin my church members and my family people go talk? "		What would my parishioners and my family say? "
Wetin this work don teach dem?		What have they learned from serving abroad?
Wetin we go gain if our faith strong?		What benefits come from having a strong faith?
Wetin you go do to protect yourself?		Your defense?
When God don destroy this wicked world, everybody wey dey heaven and earth go gree sey God no do partial for the matter.		After it is carried out, every thinking creature in the universe will heartily agree that justice was done.
When I dey 19 years, I come register my name among people wey no dey fight war.		The following year when I turned 19, I registered as a conscientious objector.
When Israel people dey wilderness, dem no see things the way dey see am.		The Israelites in the wilderness did not view 's dealings with them in a spiritual way.
When evening reach, e call all of dem make e pay dem their money. E pay all of dem the same money, whether dem work from morning reach evening or only evening or one hour.		When evening came, he gathered the workers together to give them their wages, and he gave the same amount to each of them, whether they had labored many hours or just one.
When person no train e conscience well, the conscience no go warn the person make e no do bad thing.		When a person 's conscience is not properly trained, it does not act as a restraint from wrongdoing.
When we hear this one, e just be like say we no fit win them, especially young people.		At first glance, our prospects may seem bleak. Young Christians in particular may appear to be vulnerable.
When you invite person come your house, e no make una friendship tight pass before?		When you entertained some from your congregation, was your friendship not deepened?
Which problem suppose make us put eye down?		To what dangers do Christians need to be alert?
Why we no suppose tire when problem come?		Why should we not give up when difficulties arise?
You fit think sey na small thing happen to this people.		You might feel that those incidents appear minor.
You go quick start to enjoy the new congregation when you dey follow dem go preaching well.		You will be invigorated and will adapt quicker when you share fully in the ministry.
paragraph 5 ) No be im real name be that.		paragraph 5 ) Names have been changed.
Wetin person need to do before e baptize?		What steps must a person take before getting baptized?
Many pioneers don help many people start to serve. E dey sweet dem if dem hear sey this people dey serve well or dem even become pioneer.		Many pioneers can attest to how encouraging it is for them to learn that some of those they helped into the truth years ago are staying faithful and perhaps are even serving as pioneers.
Daniel know sey people wey don die dey rest. Dem no fit plan, dem no fit learn and dem no fit think for Grave.		Elderly Daniel knew that the dead are at rest, with no " planning nor knowledge nor wisdom in the Grave. "
To preach the good news about God Kingdom to our neighbor, na one way to show sey we love dem.		One important way that we show such love for neighbor is by obeying the command to preach the good news of God 's Kingdom.
Which matter wey concern heaven and earth dey for Jesus prayer?		What matters of universal importance are found in Jesus ' prayer?
Wetin dey use give us power?		What does use to strengthen us and give us power?
Wetin fit help us choose wetin good and win our fight?		What will enable us to make the right choices and win our fight against discouragement and distractions?
Wetin go help us get the kind mind wey Jesus get?		How can we expose our mind to " the mind of Christ "?
Wetin go help us make we no dey raise shoulder up?		What will help us to remain humble?
Wetin we fit learn from the way Gideon and im 300 soldier take endure?		What can we learn from the endurance of Gideon and his 300 men?
Why E Good Make We ' Continue to Dey Watch '?		Why Must We " Keep on the Watch "?
Wetin make us know sey na Governing Body dey do this work today?		What evidence is there that the Governing Body is filling that role?
Many people for this world no know who dem suppose praise and where dem suppose praise and respect dem reach.		The world is full of people whose sense of how to bestow honor is distorted.
Na all their mind and body dem dey put to get the things wey dey this world - ' wetin our body like and wetin our eye like. '		They are engrossed in the material attractions of the world that foster " the desire of the flesh and the desire of the eyes. "
Peter write sey: ' Even though sey una no see [ Jesus ], una love am.		Peter wrote: " Though you never saw [ Jesus ], you love him.
Serve Wey Be the God of Freedom		Serve, the God of Freedom
After that one, we go see how we go take copy example and wetin we go gain if we do am.		Second, consider how you can imitate God 's example and how your doing so is truly beneficial.
All this things go help us be better papa or mama, better husband or wife and better friend. The truth be sey, people wey dey quick help other people, fit see who go quick help dem. - Read Matthew 5: 7; Luke 6: 38.		Those who are quick to show compassion are, in turn, more likely to receive help and support when they need it. - Read Matthew 5: 7; Luke 6: 38.
And Jesus dey follow, wey be im Father and Leader. - Matt.		Rather, we follow the lead of the resurrected Christ, who in turn follows the lead of his Father,. - Matt.
And no be sey Necho insult or im people.		Moreover, God 's name was not involved, for Necho was taunting neither nor his people.
Bible show why we suppose let other people choose wetin dem want. Make we see one example.		Consider a Bible example that illustrates why we must respect our brothers ' freedom to make their own decisions in matters of conscience.
Bible still talk sey make husband love im wife. ( Eph.		The Bible also says that a husband should love his wife.
Bible still tell us wetin to do.		The Bible is clear on this too.
But, fit and e ready to use im holy spirit give us power. ( 1 Chron.		However, is able and willing to give us strength by means of his holy spirit.
But, dem no fit make Paul change im mind.		However, Paul would not be dissuaded.
But tell im people sey make dem no do like that.		Yet, taught his people to avoid such an unfeeling attitude and course.
But even with all this one, Hannah no talk to Eli anyhow because e know where e suppose do reach.		Yet, despite all of this, modest Hannah kept herself restrained and was respectful in her response to Eli.
But if e no do as the people want, e no go get their support again.		On the other hand, if he refused, the people might rebel.
But the love wey we get for the person wey we marry go help us bear any problem wey dey the marriage and the marriage go even come strong pass as e dey before. - 1 Corinthians 7: 28.		Love for our marriage mate helps us to endure " tribulation " that even happily married couples have and helps strengthen our marriage. - 1 Corinthians 7: 28.
But we dey respect and praise dem because even though sey dem dey do plenty work for us, dem no dey raise shoulder. - Read 2 Corinthians 1: 24; Revelation 19: 10.		Still, we do respect and honor such brothers for their hard work and humility. - Read 2 Corinthians 1: 24; Revelation 19: 10.
But wetin we go do if we feel sey the problem small?		But what do we do when we have to cope with smaller issues of daily life?
Dem dey put hand for sex matter wey no clean for God eye, dey lie, dey play wayo and dey like to fight and kill.		Immoral, dishonest, and brutally violent deeds seem to saturate this system of things.
Dem do everything wey dem fit do to preach the good news for different different place for Australia. Dem help plenty people come serve and support im Kingdom.		Thanks to their tireless efforts, the good news penetrated every corner of the continent, helping countless individuals to take their stand for God 's Kingdom.
Dem know ' wetin e be like to be stranger. '		They knew ' how it felt to be a foreigner. '
Dem no dey respect people wey God want make dem respect. And this kind people like food and drink pass any other thing.		These include: promoting divisions, taking sides, fostering dissensions, taking one another to court, showing a lack of appreciation for headship, and being self - indulgent in food and drink.
E get one brother wey get wife and children. This brother see sey e no come dey like preaching as before.		Consider the example of a family man who felt that his zeal was waning somewhat.
E get one morning wey I go outside, everywhere white and e fine.		One morning I stepped outside to a beautiful world of white.
E hard to see brothers wey go let their quarrel reach where dem go need to follow everything for Matthew 18: 15 - 17.		Cases requiring that brothers go through all three steps outlined at Matthew 18: 15 - 17 are rare.
E no go easy! But dem fit get am if publishers fit dey get reach 15 hours every month and pioneers fit dey get reach 110 hours every month for preaching that year.		The goal could easily be met if publishers would devote 15 hours a month to the ministry and pioneers, 110 hours.
E sey: " I come try finish secondary school quick and I promise sey, ' If I pass my last exam, I go start to pioneer. ' "		He relates: " I strove to finish my secondary schooling earlier and promised, ' If I pass my final exam, I will start pioneering. ' "
E sey: " Na you dey judge who be goat?		He said: " Who gave you authority to judge who is a goat?
E still dey make God dey forgive our sin and help us serve am with clean mind. - John 14: 6; Jas.		uses the ransom to cover our sins, enabling us to have a clean conscience and draw close to him. - John 14: 6; Jas.
E talk sey: " When my family people call me, tell me sey dem like the work wey I dey do, e help me make I no forget wetin carry me come this place.		Calls from family members who said how much they appreciated my service helped me to keep in mind why I had decided to move.
E trust to help am with holy spirit.		He relied on 's spirit.
Even for this country wey dem dey go, many poor people still dey there.		Poverty is widespread, even in affluent lands.
Even if for the Jew people eye, e be like sey this problem big pass dem, still answer Nehemiah prayer.		In the face of what to the Jews might have seemed overwhelming obstacles, responded to Nehemiah 's sincere plea for help.
Even though sey e no stop to do wetin God like, e be like sey e no learn. Why we talk so?		While he did continue to show zeal in wanting to please God, it seems that he did not learn from the experience with Ahab and from Jehu 's warning words.
Even with that one, when I reach 14 years, they baptize me. As sign for the Trinity, they put my body inside water three times!		Still, when I was about 14, I got baptized in a local creek - dipped three times for the Trinity!
For 2005, e no easy for me and my wife and we nearly cry as we go back to where we dey stay for Basalt wey dey Colorado. We continue to dey pioneer for there.		Again with a lump in our throat, in 2005 we returned home to Basalt, Colorado, where Bethel and I continue pioneering.
For Judges 5: 9, 10, wetin make people wey support the war different from people wey no support?		What contrast in people 's attitude is seen at Judges 5: 9, 10, and how should this affect us today?
For all the things wey people dey do for this world, na Memorial dey make people get one mind pass.		As the planet turns on its axis, millions will gather to observe the Memorial of Christ 's death.
For example, one book wey write about the matter talk sey, for the apostle dem time, before person go fit buy two small bird wey dem dey call pigeon, e go work for 25 days.		That was the equivalent of what an unskilled laborer might earn for 25 days ' work.
God go use Jesus, wey be King of God Kingdom, take make wetin that verse talk happen.		This prophecy will be fulfilled through Jesus as God 's Messianic King.
God want make e preach to everybody, even to this Samaritan woman. Preaching just be like food for Jesus. - John 4: 31 - 34.		Preaching - even to a Samaritan woman - was the will of his Father, and it was like food for him. - John 4: 31 - 34.
Help dem make dem use their brain, but no forget their age.		Stimulate their thinking, keeping their age in mind.
How I fit do wetin I don learn?		How can I apply this information in my life?
How we fit take dey enjoy any work wey dem give us for organization?		How can we flourish in our assigned place?
How wetin dem talk for Psalm 16: 10 take happen?		How did Psalm 16: 10 find fulfillment?
How you see this kind thing?		What do you think?
I No Stop to Be Jesus Soldier ( D.		We Experienced God 's Undeserved Kindness in Many Ways ( D.
I come dey patient and get love for people pass before.		Also, having fellow workers of many nationalities broadened my viewpoint.
I de try make I no blame them.		I try not to judge them.
I dey like to dey among people wey first come Kingdom Hall and people wey comot last, anytime wey I fit.		I love to be at the Kingdom Hall among the first, and leave among the last, if possible.
If person don give im life to, e don baptize, and e dey serve well, na that one go fit make am survive great tribulation. - Matt.		After all, it is each individual 's dedication, baptism, and faithful service to God that will bring him in line for being marked for salvation during the coming great tribulation. - Matt.
If we know where we suppose do reach, how e go take make us know our work for organization?		How is modesty related to acknowledging our place in God 's arrangement?
If you dey fear about how e go be if you invite people come your house, get am for mind sey no be only you dey feel like that.		If you feel anxious about having guests, you are not alone.
Isaiah chapter 8: 13 talk say: " Na of armies wuna go see as holy. "		But note what the prophet Isaiah stated: " of armies - he is the One you should regard as holy. "
JESUS like the Law wey give Israel people.		JESUS loved the Mosaic Law.
bless us with brothers and sisters for the whole world wey fit make us strong.		gives us a worldwide brotherhood of caring worshippers who can offer us encouragement.
Jesus answer this question when e tell im enemy sey: ' Una papa Abraham happy sey e see the time wey I go come. E see am and e happy well well. '		Jesus gave a clear answer to that question when he said to his opposers: " Abraham your father rejoiced greatly at the prospect of seeing my day, and he saw it and rejoiced. "
Love - Na Better Character, Aug.		Another Bit of Evidence ( Tattenai existed ), No. 3
Make una dey take care of sheep near the mountain. '		Stay on the mountain and tend the flocks. "
Na Mary born Jesus. And Mary come from the family of King David pikin wey be Nathan.		Because Mary was a descendant of King David through the line of David 's son Nathan.
Na if we dey pray to am and we let im holy spirit direct us.		By praying to him and accepting his guidance by holy spirit.
Na one small town for Gujarat wey dey India e baptize.		IN A small town in Gujarat, India, John 's father was baptized as one of 's in the late 1950 ' s.
Na so e still be with our preaching, wetin one person fit do for preaching fit dey small for our eye.		Similarly, what we personally do in the ministry may seem very little to us.
No Put Eye for Only How Person Be for Outside, June		Generous Person Will Be Blessed " ( contributions ), Nov.
No be only young people dey face new problem.		Of course, being confronted with new challenges is not unique to young people.
Nobody go help you answer this question dem.		No one can answer those questions for you.
Now, e don reach 20 years since dem make am elder for congregation.		Eventually, he qualified to be appointed as a ministerial servant, and for the past 20 years, he has been serving as a congregation elder.
Now, them de do things sofri - sofri with people, them dey patient and de make peace with people. * ( Prov. 29: 22 ) Make we see the example of two publishers.		Notice how this was true of two Kingdom publishers who were helped to overcome anger and to cultivate peace with others.
One thing wey go help you get that correct truth na to choose different different topic for Bible and read am.		One way to gain such knowledge is through the study projects that you choose to pursue.
One woman wey born boy when e dey abroad, want send the pikin go back to im country make im husband papa and mama train am.		One woman who gave birth to a baby boy while living in a foreign country was going to send the child back to her homeland to be cared for by his grandparents.
Person wey dey read Bible everytime ' be like tree wey dem plant near river, wey dey bear fruit when im time reach, wey the leaf no dey die.		The person who regularly reads God 's Word is " like a tree planted by streams of water, a tree that produces fruit in its season, the foliage of which does not wither.
Person wey fit control im temper na strong person.		In fact, the Bible makes it clear that a mild temper has great strength.
Peter answer Jesus sey: ' Yes, Lord, you know sey I love you. '		In answer, Peter said: " Yes, Lord, you know I have affection for you. "
Plenty reasons dey. But the main reason be say, Bible condemn the two. - wp18.2, pp.		There are various reasons, but the prime reason is that the Bible condemns both practices. - wp18.2, pp.
Remember sey Israel people dey maintain the road wey person dey pass go the city, and e easy for person to reach there.		Keep the " road " to your forgiveness open and in good repair.
See wetin this three circuit overseer talk. The first one talk say: " When I preach with this kind brothers and sisters, their example de make me strong. "		Note these expressions made by circuit overseers: " When I work with such faithful brothers and sisters in the ministry, I feel energized by their example. "
So, make e dey hungry us to learn more truth join wetin we don learn before.		Yes, we must be eager to enrich our own treasure store of divine truths.
So for 1967, we pack go Adelaide for Australia.		So in 1967, we migrated to Adelaide, Australia.
Sometimes, papa and mama fit carry their pikin follow body for this kind visit.		If appropriate, parents can take their children on such visits.
THE faith wey all Christian get na character wey scarce.		CHRISTIAN faith is a precious quality.
The ' peace wey God get ' fit help you handle the problem well.		Thus " the peace of God " can triumph over any challenge you may face.
The big one na silver and the small one na gold. One gold coin fit buy two silver coins.		They would hold out two coins, a large silver one and a small gold one that was worth twice as much as the silver coin.
The grave dey inside rock and dem never bury anybody there before. Since dem never bury person for this grave before, e mean sey e never tey wey Joseph comot from Arimathea * come Jerusalem.		This vault had never been used, which indicates that Joseph had recently moved from Arimathea * to Jerusalem and that he expected to use this property as his family burial site.
The word ' remember ' fit still mean to ' talk about something. '		The word rendered " remember " can also be translated " mention. "
Then e come talk sey, ' dey make snow fall like cotton wool, e dey scatter ice and e dey throw ice block. '		The psalmist said of his God that " he sends his command to the earth; his word runs swiftly. "
This elders be like shepherd wey sabi take care of sheep.		Such elders are recognized as humble spiritual shepherds.
This one come make many people put eye for their body. The name of Daniel three friend na Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah.		Also, he and his three companions - Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah - were in the spotlight, as it were, because they were to be trained in the king 's service.
This one go help us dey feel for our brothers. Bible show sey all of us be like different different part wey dey person body.		This will help us to show fellow feeling, in harmony with the inspired counsel: " If a member is glorified, all the other members rejoice with it. "
This one na just some example of how Bible fit help us choose better thing, like person wey God spirit dey direct.		These are just a few examples to show how reflecting on godly principles can help us make decisions that harmonize with what is expected of a spiritual person.
We happy to see as many people dey come serve.		We rejoice in the advancement of the Kingdom - preaching work.
We know because of wetin God tell Israel people.		This is evident in the way God dealt with the nation of Israel.
Wetin Jesus come do?		How did he react to their pitiful state?
Wetin be another thing wey " one " mean, and how take show sey im na " one "?		What is another meaning of " one, " and how did prove to be " one "?
Wetin be some of the things wey God don take bless us now?		What are some of the rewards that we enjoy now?
Wetin go happen to some anointed ones when Christ dey around as King?		What will happen to some anointed ones during Christ 's presence?
Wetin go help us fit choose well?		What will help us to do so?
Wetin happen to Peter, James and John? How that kind thing fit happen to us?		What happened to Peter, James, and John, and how might that happen to us too?
Wetin many of people don promise am, and how we fit show sey we get faith like Jephthah?		What vow have many of us made, and how can we prove faithful?
Wetin some papa and mama wey dey congregation wey dey use another language don see about their pikin, and why e be like that?		What have some parents serving in a foreign - language field come to realize, and why?
Wetin we fit learn from Asa mistake?		Will the account about Asa move us to examine our own course of action?
Wetin we go learn go make the love wey we get for and for Bible strong more more. - Mic.		It will also deepen our love for the Author of the Bible, who provided it for our benefit. - Mic.
What of to do the correct thing?		What, then, about honesty?
When brothers and sisters travel, dem no dey like stay hotel. Dem dey like stay with other brothers and sisters. Why?		Traveling Christians would certainly want to stay with fellow believers.
Why e no go surprise us if person for congregation no treat us or another person well?		Why should it come as no surprise if a Christian observes or experiences injustice in the congregation?
Why we dey sure sey na help dem, and how we take know sey na im dey help Governing Body today?		Why can we conclude that has been supporting these men, and how do we know that he is backing the faithful and discreet slave today?
Why you feel sey dey bless you? Wetin go make you praise for your life?		Why do you feel favored by God, and what reasons do you have to cry out " Praise Jah! "?
You don marry?		Are you married?
You for put hand for head when you see all the house wey dem scatter?		Would you have been saddened when you saw the ruined buildings overgrown with weeds?
Your body strong or e no too strong?		Is your health good or fragile?
Make una no forget to dey treat stranger well. ' - HEB. 13: 2, ftn.		Do not forget kindness to strangers. " - HEB. 13: 2, ftn.
Where una keep wetin una value, na there una mind go still dey. ' - LUKE 12: 34.		Where your treasure is, there your hearts will be also. " - LUKE 12: 34.
We fit talk sey na brothers wey ready to travel go different different place, help many of us sabi the truth wey dey Bible.		First, to some extent, most of us owe our knowledge of the truth to faithful ones who were willing to travel in order to make it known to us.
Make we no ever talk about our brothers and sisters sey, " I just dey manage dem, I no really like dem. "		Never would we want to say regarding fellow worshippers, " I may have to love them, but I do not have to like them "!
For this topic, we go learn how we fit use the power wey Bible get for ( 1 ) our life, ( 2 ) for preaching, and ( 3 ) when we dey teach for Kingdom Hall.		In this article, we will therefore consider how we may more fully unleash the power of God 's Word ( 1 ) in our personal life, ( 2 ) when we share in the ministry, and ( 3 ) when we teach from the platform.
The apostle know sey dem fit preach well if dem dey read and think about wetin Bible talk.		The apostles realized that reading the Scriptures and meditating on them was essential for their ministry.
Adam, Eve and some Israel people put mind for wetin dem think sey better pass.		May we never fall into the trap of choosing to rely on our own understanding, as did Adam and the rebellious Israelites.
When dem come back, dem go happy.		They will be happy and in vibrant health.
Jesus show sey e dey patient and e dey gentle even when dem dey suffer am. This one na better example for us! - Read 1 Peter 2: 21 - 23.		What an outstanding example of mildness and patience under painful and stressful circumstances! - Read 1 Peter 2: 21 - 23.
After Jesus die for our sin, e go back to heaven as spirit.		Still later, Jesus took on a new role on earth, first as a helpless baby and then as an adult.
If we do something when we still dey vex, we fit talk or do wetin we go later regret.		In the heat of the moment, it is all too easy to react emotionally.
Some brothers really encourage Paul, and Paul no fail to talk about them.		Paul took special note of brothers who had proved to be " a strengthening aid " to him.
Wetin the Greek word for ' favor ' mean?		What did Paul mean by saying " undeserved kindness "?
How Bible verse wey dem read for meeting take change one sister mind?		How was one sister affected by the use of scriptures at a Christian meeting?
Wetin fit help us know whether enjoyment don be number one thing for our life?		Illustrate the dangers related to recreation and entertainment. ( b ) What could help us to maintain a balanced view of recreation and entertainment?
Wetin Joseph story teach us about?		What does the account of Joseph teach us about?
Wetin be the first thing wey papa and mama suppose dey think about?		What should be a parent 's first concern?
Wetin we fit do to make other people strong?		In what ways can we strengthen others?
Which question we go answer for this topic?		What questions will be considered in this article?
E sweet us well well sey dem don translate the whole Bible, or part of am for almost 3,000 language.		Thankfully, the Bible or portions of it have now been translated into nearly 3,000 languages.
Wetin fit happen to us now and why we no go let am happen?		Of what must we be careful, and why?
Wetin we fit do to help refugee?		How can we give refugees practical help?
Luke 24: 28 - 30 ) To invite person to chop with dem mean sey dem want be friend and dem no want get problem with each other.		An invitation to share food was an invitation to friendship and peace.
Wetin prophet Isaiah talk wey dey happen for our time?		What prophecy is being fulfilled in our day, and with what result?
This one show sey, if we want dey follow Jesus, we must promise sey we go use our life serve am and we go baptize.		Clearly, discipleship - including dedication and baptism - is an obligation for you as a Christian.
Eph. 6: 1 - 4 ) If we help dem sometimes, e go make dem happy.		In some cases help from others is needed and much appreciated.
Adam and Eve no know this angel well.		Adam and Eve knew virtually nothing about this spirit.
Our Papa wey dey heaven don give us better chance to join im organization.		Our heavenly Father has granted us the wonderful privilege of being part of his organization.
The Father wey dey pity person well well and the God wey dey make our mind come down ' go give us everything wey we need to make our mind come down so that we go continue to serve am well.		The Father of tender mercies and the God of all comfort " will unstintingly give us the emotional and spiritual support that we need, perhaps doing so by means of our fellow worshippers.
So if we make mistake, e mean sey we no know how to control ourself well, or we no sabi control ourself at all?		A fall, however, need not spell complete failure or a serious lack of self - discipline.
Why people dey swear?		What is an oath?
After that one, we go talk about how we fit continue to get joy, and even increase our joy.		We should not confuse being joyful with simply being jovial or cheerful.
And e talk sey: " For many years, many brothers and their wife don visit our congregation. Me and my husband dey invite dem come our house. We dey enjoy am everytime wey dem come our house.		A sister in the United States remembers: " Over the years, my husband and I have had the opportunity to provide hospitality in our home for many speakers and their wives.
And na different way e take dey do am.		He does so in a number of ways.
And na for the sixth year after dem carry am go Babylon e write wetin dey Ezekiel 8: 1 - 19: 14.		Ezekiel 8: 1 - 19: 14 is dated " in the sixth year " of that exile, or 612 B.C.E.
And na near Sokuluk e come dey stay. This place near my town.		Emil settled near Sokuluk, in my home region.
Around this time, dem call me come Bethel. And I work for Watchtower Farm, wey dey where dem dey call Staten Island for New York.		About this time, I received an invitation to serve at Bethel, at what was then called Watchtower Farm, on Staten Island, New York.
As you greet the person, maybe you even shake e hand or you hug the person.		You may even have accompanied your greeting with a handshake or a hug.
Because Nehemiah na governor that time, e need to choose people wey go do work.		As governor, Nehemiah had to fill positions of responsibility among God 's people.
Because of this one, young and old people dey want copy their character, the way dem dey dress and how dem dey talk.		Hence, young and old alike look to them as role models, perhaps imitating their mannerisms, dress, or conduct.
Because of wetin Jesus do, God fit forgive people wey e love.		By means of Christ 's sacrifice, God freely forgives those whom he loves.
Because of wetin don happen for my life, I dey feel sey God no go fit love person like me.		Because of my past, I found it difficult to feel worthy of God 's love.
Bible dey help us when we get problem and e dey give us hope.		S love the Bible.
Bible talk sey: ' Dey do like the people wey get the things wey God don promise because of their faith and their patience. '		The Bible says: " Be imitators of those who through faith and patience inherit the promises. "
Brothers wey the governing body dey send go congregation dey tell the congregation to follow, the ' law wey the apostle dem and the elders for Jerusalem don agree sey make dem follow. '		Brothers traveling on behalf of the governing body shared " the decrees that had been decided on by the apostles and the elders who were in Jerusalem. "
But ' the man no get person wey go help am to make am complete. '		But " for man there was no helper as a complement of him. "
But Saul believe sey still dey use Jew people.		That man was zealous for the traditions of Judaism, but he learned a better way.
But as e come be, I need to comot.		But it was time to move on.
But because of our faith we dey happy to support wetin God want do, and we go continue to dey support am.		Rather, in faith we have happily cooperated with and continue to cooperate with God 's revealed purpose.
But e still get other country wey be sey their government no dey too put eye for this matter or get law wey concern this matter.		However, public employees in parts of the world without such laws or where such laws are not rigorously enforced do not have the same attitude toward the functions they fulfill.
But if that one happen, na chance for dem to forgive, to learn from wetin don happen and to let love control their marriage. Na im make love ' dey join everything together to make am complete. ' ( Col.		When that happens, however, there are opportunities to learn from these errors, to be forgiving, and to let love have full sway as " a perfect bond of union. "
But no be every time things easy.		But it is not without its challenges.
But the time wey go make peace full everywhere never come.		However, God 's time to bring about complete peace has not yet come.
But wetin e good make dem put for mind?		What factors merit their consideration?
But you no need to let am fear you.		But take courage.
Dem dey make people believe sey na only mumu and person wey no go school, go believe sey God dey.		They have convinced many that a person must be either naive or unintelligent to believe in a Creator.
Dem still advertise Brother Russell talk when e go Ireland the sixth and seventh time for 1911.		Advertised public talks were also featured during Brother Russell 's sixth and seventh trips, in 1911.
E do miracle wey help plenty people get food, and e even get one time when e do miracle to get the money wey e need. - Matt.		With 's support, Jesus miraculously provided food and even money when needed. - Matt.
E get two pikin wey be twins.		Doc " McCartney, was pioneering.
E good make we praise because e get power well well. We dey see the kind power wey e get for the things wey e make. E still good make we praise because e send Jesus to come die for us. This one show sey e love us no be small.		We can praise him because of his immense power, as seen in the wonders of his creation, or because of his warm dealings with humankind, as evidenced by his provision of the ransom sacrifice of his own Son.
E good to know sey God servant, like Elijah, Jesus, or Peter dey there when do all this miracle.		It is interesting, though, that a faithful servant of God, such as Elijah, Jesus, or Peter, was present on each of those occasions, during the time when was performing miracles.
E no reach one year before me and Bethel marry. Na 1958 we marry. E join me dey pioneer for El Dorado.		Bethel and I were married less than a year later, in 1958, and she joined me as a pioneer in El Dorado.
E no talk sey e go cheap to build the house on top sand sand.		He did not reason that it would be cheaper or quicker to build his house on sand.
E open im ear well as I dey tell am how I dey feel.		He listened with sympathy as I expressed my feelings.
E really dey different from King David, e grandpapa.		How different he was from his grandfather, King David!
E send people go different different area for Judah so that dem go teach Judah people wetin dey Law.		He did so by organizing a teaching campaign that used " the book of 's Law. "
E still talk sey: ' Make the person wey fit make space for am, make space for am. '		He added: " Let the one who can make room for it make room for it. "
E talk about ' Jesus Christ wey come from Nazareth, wey dem kill and hang for pole. But God bring am back to life. '		He spoke of " Jesus Christ the Nazarene, whom you executed on a stake but whom God raised up from the dead. "
Elders go don advice dem, but dem no gree take the advice.		They were evidently admonished by the elders but persisted in disregarding the counsel.
Even though sey I go meeting with serious pain for my leg, heart problem, and the plenty wahala wey diabetes dey give me, I dey always happy when meeting don close pass the time when I reach meeting.		Even though I come with severe knee pain, heart problems, and complications from diabetes, I always leave the meeting feeling better than when I arrived.
Gloria de clean house for people.		Gloria had a few housekeeping jobs.
Great tribulation go start when government go attack all the fake religion wey Bible call Babylon the Great. ( Rev.		The great tribulation will begin when the political elements turn against all false religious organizations as represented by the prostitute called Babylon the Great.
How Christian for apostle time take show us better example?		How did the first - century Christians set a pattern of singing in worship?
How dey see the different different government wey dey this world?		What does think about human governments?
How we dey behave and how we dey talk go show if we dey support any side or we no dey support.		This will be evident by what we say and what we do.
How we fit use Matthew 5: 3 take help people know wetin dey make person happy?		How can we use Matthew 5: 3 to reason on the question, What makes people happy?
I come dey fear, but I like wetin my papa do.		I was frightened but so admired Father.
I come see sey, the way people dey see things dey different and get love for different different people, no matter where dem come from. - Acts 10: 34, 35.		These visits broadened my viewpoint even more and helped me to see how 's love embraces people of all kinds. - Acts 10: 34, 35.
If we value the truth wey dey teach us, we go dey add new things join wetin we don already learn.		If we treasure the wisdom from, our heart will motivate us to fill up our treasure store with truths - both new and old.
If you be one of the disciple that time, you for stop to serve because of wetin Peter do?		Had you been a disciple then, would Peter 's actions have affected your loyalty to?
Jesus obey im Father, even when e hard am well well. ( Matt.		Jesus always listened obediently to his Father, even when doing so was very difficult.
Lije, wey don be circuit overseer now, talk how camp be. E sey: ' Many people no get work.		Lije, now a circuit overseer, comments: " Most people had no work.
Make God bless the person wey dey come with name. "		Blessed is the one who comes in the name of. "
Many people don see sey, when dem join do full - time service when dem young, e dey make their marriage get head.		Often, those who pioneered before marriage have been able to continue in that service together as a married couple. - Rom.
My wife, wey no shake for truth, and the brothers for congregation help me start to dey serve well again.		With the support of the brothers and my dear wife - who never wavered spiritually - I gradually regained my spiritual strength.
Na im make Witness people plenty pass people wey dey some country today. How people don show sey dem get love?		Thus, the number of God 's people on earth is now greater than the entire population of many nations.
Na later dem come know sey Paul and Silas get the right wey Rome people get. Because of that one, dem come see am sey na big mistake dem do as dem take suffer dem like that.		Then, on realizing that Paul and Silas are Roman citizens, the magistrates see that they have made a huge blunder, so they themselves come to escort the two men out.
Na love go make us show all this character wey we dey talk about since.		All the qualities considered thus far are closely connected with love.
Na only when sin no dey again we go get the kind freedom wey Adam and Eve first get.		It is only when the shackles of sin are thrown off that we can hope to have the true freedom that our first human parents once enjoyed.
Na so the shoe wey apostle Paul say make we wear de help us tell people the good news of peace. ( Isa. 52: 7; Rom.		Even so, it takes courage to speak up when the opportunity arises.
Na the 1468 copy of the book wey dem dey call Digest wey Emperor Justinian write be this. E dey among the things wey show the case wey dey happen that time		This 1468 copy of the Digest by Emperor Justinian is one of many records that provide details about legal issues in ancient times
Na the book wey dem dey call The Finished Mystery dem dey give people to explain Bible for dem.		When the book The Finished Mystery was banned by the secular authorities in early 1918, preaching became difficult for many of the brothers.
Na true sey we fit worship well for this wicked world?		But how can we be sure that true worship will prevail in this world filled with ungodliness?
One husband and wife dey preach to one woman wey go carry im pikin from school.		A Witness couple share the Bible 's message of good news with a mother who picked up her son from school.
One time when I dey go there, some pioneer join me for my motor, and as we dey go we get accident for Texas wey scatter my motor.		On one trip, some fellow pioneers and I traveled together in my car, and we had an accident in Texas that rendered my car useless.
Read am everytime		Read it regularly
Remember sey Jesus give us work. That work na to preach and teach the good news about God Kingdom. ( Matt.		Recall that Jesus has assigned us to preach and teach the good news of God 's Kingdom.
Romans 8: 6 talk sey: ' To dey put mind for the spirit dey bring life and peace. '		Romans 8: 6 answers clearly: " Setting the mind on the spirit means life and peace. "
STORY ABOUT PEOPLE		LIFE STORY
Sabi talk well.		Converse with people.
So, to fit ' learn am by yourself ' you go use your time study Bible everyday. - Acts 17: 11.		So " find out for yourself " by being diligent in " carefully examining the Scriptures daily. " - Acts 17: 11.
Some dey like the part wey talk about Jesus story because this part dey teach us the kind person wey be.		Some especially enjoy the Gospels, which paint a beautiful picture of 's personality as reflected in his Son.
Some don already go.		Quite a few have already moved.
That one na better thing because e mean sey our brothers dey quick settle quarrel; dem no dey let am reach to disfellowship person.		That is encouraging, for it means that a solution is usually found before the situation reaches the point where an unrepentant sinner must be removed from the congregation.
That time, na secretary work I dey do for Brother Milton Henschel.		By that time, I was doing secretarial duties for Milton Henschel, who had worked with Brother Knorr for decades.
The Wayuu people na people wey like to talk about God.		The brothers do all they can to preach the good news to the Wayuu people.
The brother sey: " I no dey do any bad thing. I dey serve but my mind no really dey.		He says: " I never did anything wrong, but I was just going through the motions.
The brothers and sisters for the two congregation dey use different language; some na oyibo and some na black.		Arrangements were made for two congregations of different language or race to be together on some weekends.
The example show say one man wey e come from family of king go travel go another place for long time. This man na Jesus.		It showed that Jesus, the " man of noble birth " would have to go away for a long time.
The people wey dey serve God dey happy as dem dey do things for other people.		is a happy God, and his people reflect that quality.
The pikin no go dey fear to come meet im papa and mama when e get problem.		Now the stage is set for the child to ask for help when important matters come up later.
The truth be sey, dem know.		Of course, they did.
The world no get peace and na so so confusion full everywhere.		The world out there is chaotic and bleak.
Then when the pikin don reach age to drive, e go start to drive the motor and im papa go still dey tell am other things wey e need to do.		Then, when the boy is of legal age, he begins to drive the car as his father gives him further instruction.
Think of one watchman wey sleep no enter im eye at all for the whole night as e dey do im work.		Imagine a watchman who has been awake at his post all night.
This people fit tell other people the good news about Jesus, and about the power wey get to resurrect people wey don die. - Acts 9: 36 - 42.		They could testify both in general about the Lord and specifically about 's ability to raise the dead. - Acts 9: 36 - 42.
Today, which people need person to encourage dem?		Who are in need of encouragement today?
Wahala full everywhere for this world today and people mind no settle.		People 's problems and worries move us to want to help them spiritually.
We dey sure sey value everything wey we dey do to serve am.		We can be sure that appreciates every effort that we make to serve him.
We go try make we no put hand for any kind sin, even if people think sey na small sin.		We will not be able to do that perfectly.
Wetin God get for mind no happen the time wey e want.		Things did not immediately work out as God had purposed.
Wetin be some things wey fit help us gain as we dey read Bible?		What suggestions can help us to benefit from all portions of the Bible?
Wetin come happen surprise me.		Then an amazing thing happened.
Wetin dey the small topic come even make am clear, na: " No Outstanding Increase in Ten Years ( Since Ten Years the Number Never Go Up Well ). "		Informant, * December 1937, London edition ) The sobering subtitle added: " No Outstanding Increase in Ten Years. "
Wetin go help everybody for family get wetin promise?		How can we win the prize as a family?
Wetin go help us check how our friendship with be?		What might we consider when analyzing our spirituality?
Wetin go help us continue to know where we suppose do reach?		What will help us to remain modest forever?
Wetin papa and mama fit do to show their children better example?		How can parents set a good example for their children?
Wetin we fit learn from the baptism of the Ethiopia man and apostle Paul?		What can we learn about baptism from the Ethiopian proselyte and from the apostle Paul?
When elders come visit you again, use that time wey you go spend with them to learn from the fine things wey they go tell you.		The next time an elder visits you, take advantage of the opportunity to draw on his wisdom and benefit from his advice.
When the seed grow for where chukuchuku dey, all the other things wey person fit like come enter, kill the seed, and e no come fit produce fruit. - Mark 4: 14, 18, 19.		When the Kingdom message is " sown among the thorns., the desires for everything else make inroads and choke the word, and it becomes unfruitful. " - Mark 4: 14, 18, 19.
When we come back, people come de ask us say: ' Wetin happen?		When we returned, passersby asked, ' What happened?
When young people put mind for work, go bless dem and their life go get head. - Read Proverbs 16: 3.		Young people who keep focused on serving can be sure of his blessing in making a success of life. - Read Proverbs 16: 3.
Whether na elder or ministerial servant e want be, e go try well well to get the kind character wey go help am fit do this work for congregation.		In time, he hopes to be spiritually qualified to serve as an overseer.
Which question we fit ask ourself when we dey read or study Bible?		What questions can we ask ourselves when we read or study the Bible?
Why? Because e dey the program, the card wey dem take welcome people and the different different sign wey dey the convention ground.		All week long, delegates puzzled over the letters " GA " printed on the convention program, welcome cards, and signs around the convention grounds.
Why e be sey want make we ' do everything wey we fit do ' to get the kind character wey e like?		Why does expect us to put forth effort to overcome our weaknesses?
Why e good make we no allow anything make us stop to dey do good to people?		overcoming barriers to extending hospitality?
Why e good to use better eye dey look stranger?		Why might we need to adjust our view of strangers?
You dey pray about this matter?		Is that a goal that you pray about?
You no think sey e go surprise am well well? * Abraham go happy to know the better thing wey e do to make wetin talk about the Messiah happen!		Just imagine how thrilled he will be to understand for the first time his vital role in the outworking of 's purpose with regard to the promised offspring!
how take dey forgive us?		the completeness of 's forgiveness?
E good make we dey patient, make we get good mind, and make we no dey raise shoulder. This things go help us continue to dey preach.		It truly takes patience, kindness, and humility to continue sharing the Kingdom message with our neighbors.
Jephthah show sey e get faith like Hannah, e fit even be sey two of dem live for the same time. Like Hannah, Jephthah do wetin e promise, even though sey e no go easy for am and im pikin.		Like faithful Hannah, who probably lived during his time, Jephthah had to keep his promise, even though he knew what it meant for his daughter and himself.
E clear sey, when we dey for meeting, and Jesus dey with us and dem dey mek us strong.		Clearly, and Jesus are with us and are strengthening us at our meetings.
But Israel people see sey people wey dey lead dem no be like that. Dem make sure sey Israel people clean for their worship, character and body.		In contrast, God 's ancient people saw how their faithful leaders promoted spiritual, moral, and physical cleanness.
But draw us come e side " with rope of love. " ( Hos.		But drew us to him " with the cords of love. "
E get many things wey the organization dey give us wey we dey use for phone and computer.		The digital tools we receive for use in our personal ministry are continually being improved.
We happy sey Bible don give us better advice wey go help us. The advice go help us stop jealousy and quarrel, and continue to make peace.		Happily, the Bible also provides us with positive advice on how we can avoid those problems and strengthen peace.
Na only ' small for wetin e dey do ' we know, and ' na only small we don hear about am. '		We know only " the fringes of [ God 's ] ways, " and " only a faint whisper has been heard of him. "
Jesus Sacrifice Na Gift From		The Ransom - A " Perfect Present " From the Father
After Jesus die and God resurrect am, e come show us better example for this matter.		An outstanding example in this respect was given by Jesus himself after his death and resurrection.
After sometime, we come marry. We come dey face wahala for life together.		In time, we married and could face life 's challenges together.
And nothing better pass the love wey no dey fail wey dey show us. - Isa.		At the same time, nothing is more satisfying than feeling his " everlasting loyal love. " - Isa.
And we know sey people for this world dey think of only wetin their body want.		Paul describes it as " the spirit that is now at work in the sons of disobedience. "
Anytime wey we get new work for congregation, make we remember Gideon example.		When we do accept a new assignment, Gideon 's example reminds us that we cannot succeed without 's direction and blessing.
Apostle Paul talk sey make we try well well to continue to get one mind, and do wetin go make peace dey. ( Eph.		Recall the apostle Paul 's counsel that we should be " earnestly endeavoring to maintain the oneness of the spirit in the uniting bond of peace. "
But, we thank sey e no dey ' punish us as our sin reach. ' If we carry body down, get faith for Jesus sacrifice, pray make e forgive us, and repent, e go forgive us. ( Ps.		Thankfully, though, does not deal with us " according to our sins, " provided that we are repentant and in faith approach him humbly on the basis of Jesus ' ransom sacrifice.
But God no make human being like animal. E want make you plan better thing wey you go use your life do.		This is in sharp contrast with the animals he created, which are content merely to eat, drink, and produce offspring.
But I no get am for mind to preach for my village. I want go preach for another place so that I go leave my grand mama wey no be Witness.		I wanted to move away from my hometown and from my grandmother with whom I had been living but who was not one of 's.
But no be so!		However, such a conclusion is unthinkable!
But now, na me and my wife old pass for Bethel.		Now my wife and I are the oldest members.
But prophet Agabus tell am sey if e go, people go arrest am and dem fit even kill am.		He might even be killed.
Charles Harris pioneer for many years. E talk sey the hard life for those place wey far well well and where people no too dey, help am near more more.		Longtime pioneer Charles Harris explained that the isolation and physical hardships of the outback actually drew him closer to.
Dem no fit move their leg because dem lock their leg for wood. Their back still dey pain dem because dem just beat dem finish.		Their feet are fastened securely in stocks, and their backs are still aching from the beatings they had just received.
Dem no go dey ' carry wetin dem do theirself for mind and dem go use all their mind forgive theirself. '		They ' continue putting up with each other and forgiving each other freely. '
Dem want make I know sey baptism na serious matter.		They wanted to make sure I knew how serious my decision was.
E come make me see sey the blood and the body of the animal wey dem kill for that Passover, get big meaning! "		I literally had to stop and contemplate how incredible that prophetic Passover meal was! "
E don check wetin different different religion dey teach and wetin dey Bible.		He soon realized that not one of those religions completely adhered to God 's Word.
E make people no de happy.		I really want to help them.
E sey: ' I go continue to dey look and dey wait for.		He tells us: " As for me, I will keep on the lookout for.
E sey: ' Una go dey preach about me for Jerusalem, and for all the area for Judea and Samaria, go reach where far pass for this world. '		Jesus had given his followers a commission: " You will be of me in Jerusalem, in all Judea and Samaria, and to the most distant part of the earth. "
E talk sey: ' Because I go another country go preach, I don take my eye see how dey help people wey come from different different country come im organization.		She relates: " Serving abroad allowed me to see firsthand how draws people from all races and backgrounds into his organization.
Even though sey we no know everything wey go do, we know the kind God wey we dey serve.		Even though we do not know everything will do, we do know our God.
Eygpt people hate Israel people well well, even before dem make Israel people slave. E fit be because dem feel sey their country and religion better pass Israel people own. ( Gen. 43: 32; 46: 34; Ex.		Even before they were reduced to slavery, the Hebrews were likely shunned by the Egyptians because of racial pride or religious prejudice.
Ezekiel see this vision around 612 years before Jesus time.		This prophecy was given in 612 B.C.E., and its initial fulfillment refers to the destruction of Jerusalem by the Babylonian army - something that was to occur just five years later.
For Bethel, e dey sweet me to hear about the better things wey dey come out from our preaching work for the whole world.		At Bethel, I enjoy hearing firsthand about the progress of the disciple - making activity worldwide.
For example, if we be papa or mama, we fit tell our pikin wetin we like about the way dem dey do for work.		If we are parents, for example, we could tell our children what we appreciate about the spiritual progress they are making.
For example, mek you ask yourself, ' I dey enjoy news about politics matter just because sey the person dey talk wetin I like? '		For example, ask yourself, ' Do I enjoy listening to a certain reporter because I agree with what he says about politics? '
Hope dey.		Maintain hope.
How we take know? We don see how e take show im faith and sey e no fear to bury Jesus.		After all, at the moment of test and crisis, his faith and boldness were increasing rather than diminishing.
I don see the one mind wey people get, wey no dey anywhere.		I also experience the outstanding unity found among 's people.
I go make person wey go help am. " ' - GEN.		I am going to make a helper for him. ' " - GEN.
I no too go school, na only five years I spend for school. And when I stop school, I come start to dey work for the farm, and I put body for the work.		After just five years of schooling, I too began working full - time on the kolkhoz.
I still dey check branch record. I happy to see some of the people wey first graduate from Gilead School.		What a joy it was to meet some who had graduated from the early classes of Gilead School and were still serving faithfully in their foreign assignments!
If dem continue to do wetin like, dem go stay for heaven and go rule with Jesus.		If they proved faithful, they would live and rule with Christ in heaven.
If people no take this fine gift, na normal thing say e go pain us. If we feel like that, e no mean say we no get faith.		So when people refuse to accept that gift, it is no wonder that we may have " pain in [ our ] heart. "
Instead, make we dey do wetin elders for congregation tell us and make we dey respect dem.		If we are lowly in heart, we will not give in to the worldly spirit of self - exaltation.
Instead, make we show sey na wetin want we go do.		True Christians work against that trend.
Instead, make we trust and do wetin we fit do.		Rather, we need to cultivate strong trust in while taking whatever appropriate action we can.
Israel people suppose stop to respect the men wey God choose, because dem dey make mistake?		Did the imperfections of God 's representatives excuse the Israelites from following their lead?
JOSEPH OF ARIMATHEA want make dem bury Jesus well.		JOSEPH OF ARIMATHEA hardly knew how he had found the courage to approach the Roman governor.
love people wey dey copy im character and to do the correct thing na one of dem.		loves those who adorn his teaching by displaying his superlative qualities, including honesty.
love us na im make e dey give us chance to show sey we dey support am.		What can we give to that he does not already have?
no want make we dey carry body up. If we no dey raise shoulder, we go gain better thing.		Humility is required of all true worshippers and brings great rewards.
Jesus know sey go fit mold im apostle if dem dey do like am and put ear as e dey sofri advice dem.		He knew that his faithful apostles could be molded by kind, patient counsel and by their observing his example of humility.
Like that family, plenty people fit surprise for the kind thing wey Haykanush and im husband do.		Like that family, many people would be surprised by the honesty Haykanush and her husband showed.
Make peace dey where you dey.		Make peace.
Make you fear and comot hand for bad thing. '		Fear and turn away from bad. "
Make you no think sey you go fit use your sense handle any problem when you no do research well.		Also, avoid becoming overconfident - perhaps thinking that you have so much experience that you can handle any situation without doing careful research.
Many brothers and sisters dey join build place like Kingdom Hall for different part of the world.		Nonetheless, many seize the opportunity to volunteer in theocratic construction projects around the world.
Na Witness people print am but we no dey print am again.		Published by 's but now out of print.
Na another sister come be my pioneer partner. But congregation no still dey there.		I had a new pioneer partner, but again there was no congregation.
Na because we love and we want make people get life wey no go end.		We likewise help others " to search for. "
Na to show whether we support as our King and whether dey rule well.		However, a very big issue facing all of us is the vindication of 's sovereignty.
Na true sey my papa and mama drive me comot for house, but don give me plenty brothers and sisters wey dey serve with me.		True, my parents drove me out of their home, but has given me a big family of fellow believers.
Na wetin Zedekiah, the last king wey rule for Jerusalem do be that.		That is exactly what the last king to occupy the throne of Jerusalem did.
ONE Dutch newspaper wey write about one meeting wey people wey dey lead for church do, talk sey: " You go see as people dey dress anyhow because the weather hot.		YOU saw a lot of casual clothing, especially when it was hot, " reported a Dutch newspaper regarding a meeting of church leaders.
One circuit overseer talk say more people for e area want make things change.		People in our area are becoming more and more radical, " notes one traveling overseer.
Other prophet like Elijah ' waka up and down for desert and mountain and cave and different different den for this earth. '		Others, like Elijah, " wandered about in deserts and mountains and caves and dens of the earth. "
Paul enemy do everything to make the government and the people hate am.		Paul 's opposers tried in various ways to turn the common people and the authorities against the apostle.
Person fit no like the work wey dem give am. But I believe sey if e do am, go bless am.		I believe that if you accept an assignment even when you don 't really feel like doing it, you will always be blessed by.
Since Governing Body fit do mistake and God no dey talk to dem from heaven, which question this one fit make us ask?		Since the Governing Body is neither inspired nor infallible, what questions arise?
Some people dey try to cover the bad thing wey dem don do because of shame. Another reason be sey dem no want be disgrace to other people. ( Prov.		Some Christians who have committed a serious sin try to cover it over in order to avoid embarrassing themselves or disappointing others.
Sometimes e fit comot the problem.		At times, he may remove the trial.
The second thing wey Jesus tell God for the prayer na: ' Make your Kingdom come. '		In the model prayer, Jesus next petitioned God: " Let your Kingdom come. "
The second topic come talk about how papa and mama wey pack go another country fit follow wetin dey Bible wey go help dem choose wetin go favor their children.		The second article considers how applying Bible principles will help immigrant parents to make decisions that will benefit their children.
The story na about one man wey give some of im servant money.		You were faithful over a few things.
Things like: When e reach the time wey dem marry, or when dem go another person own. E fit be music, picture, things wey dem dey do before, one kind smell, wetin dem dey listen to, or when some kind season reach.		Remember that bereaved ones may experience pangs of grief triggered by anniversaries, certain music, photographs, activities, or even a specific smell, sound, or season of the year.
This kind thing dey make life tire person.		Such nonessential things only complicate our life and weigh us down.
This one fit make their enemy no get power to fight dem. Their enemy fit start to fight theirself or separate theirself from their group.		They may induce enemy soldiers to fight among themselves or fool them into isolating themselves from the main fighting force.
To fit reach there, you go need to enter bus.		Getting there requires a long journey by bus.
We dey sure sey if we ' dey put mind for the spirit, ' the life wey we dey live now go better and we go dey happy.		We can trust that by making " the spirit " the real center of our existence, we will have a satisfying, meaningful life now.
We do this one for some time when I dey study am. Bible come dey help Graham see the kind person wey e be, and e no like wetin e see!		Graham began to see himself clearly in the mirror of God 's Word, and he did not like what he saw!
We go talk about this matter for the next topic.		Let us address these aspects in the following article.
We know sey hand dey the matter, na im make we get many congregation for the area now.		s hand in this arrangement was apparent, as there are now dozens of congregations in the area.
We spend four hours for train before we reach there.		Getting there from our home involved a four - hour journey by train.
Wetin Ahab do as e hear wetin talk, and wetin come happen?		How did Ahab respond to 's judgment message, and with what result?
Wetin e talk make me remember wetin my mama dey tell us when we small, e sey: ' E better to chop vegetable for where love dey. ' " ( Prov.		This reminded me of what my mum used to say to us as children: ' Better a dish of vegetables where there 's love. ' "
Wetin go help us " understand everything " wey we suppose do to make happy?		What will enable us to " understand everything " we need to know to please our heavenly Father?
Wetin go help us so that our work no go be the main thing for our life?		How do we keep secular work in its proper place?
Wetin person need to do before e fit baptize?		What steps must a Bible student take before baptism?
When Adam and Eve chop the fruit, dem no come be part of family again.		When Adam and Eve ate of that fruit, they put themselves in a position where they could no longer be accepted as members of God 's universal family.
When Daniel reach four years, e get one kind sickness wey them de call leukemia.		When Daniel was four, he developed acute leukemia.
When dem nail am for the pole, the disgrace wey dem disgrace am no be small and body pain am well well.		When he was being executed on the torture stake, he was humiliated and in a lot of pain.
When dem uproot tree go plant for another place, e no dey easy for am to grow. When dem dey uproot am, no be all the root dey follow am.		As a tree is removed from the ground, most of its roots are usually cut off to make it easier to transport.
Which reasons dey for Bible why we no de tire to preach?		What Scriptural reasons do we have to keep on preaching?
Which work be that? Na to protect people, especially from Babylon hand.		The chariots and their riders are sent out to care for specific territories.
Who fit talk sey war, poverty, sickness, or death never affect am before?		Who of us can claim to be untouched by warfare, poverty, or racism?
Why Pharisee people no dey pity other people?		Why were the Pharisees so unwilling to show mercy?
Why e good make we dey train people wey fit be overseer for congregation?		Why should efforts be made to train prospective shepherds of God 's flock?
Why e good make we trust when we dey use the freedom wey e give us?		What does trusting in have to do with our use of free will?
how God dey mold people wey let am mold dem?		how God molds those who submit to him?
God word dey alive '		The word of God is alive
Good person mind dey first think before e answer, but wicked person mouth dey pour bad things come out. ' ( Prov.		The heart of the righteous one meditates before answering, but the mouth of the wicked blurts out bad things.
Why e no good to play with wetin we promise God?		How serious is it to make a vow to God?
Today, for country wey people like to born plenty pikin, e no easy for missionary wey dey there. People go dey ask dem why dem no get pikin.		Missionaries serving in lands where it is customary to have large families are often asked why they do not have children.
Na after 1914, when God Kingdom start to rule for heaven, na im God raise many of this people wey e don anoint go heaven, make dem fit join Jesus rule this earth. - Rev.		Sometime after the Kingdom 's birth in 1914, all such faithful anointed ones, who were sleeping in death, were raised to spirit life in heaven to share with Jesus in his rulership over mankind. - Rev.
Na im make Jesus no get sin for body, just as Adam be when God first make am.		Jesus thus became a perfect human, just as Adam had been.
For this last days, some bank don stop work and some country no get money like before. But the one wey go soon happen, go strong pass wetin dey happen now.		Bank and economic collapses that have occurred in these last days are insignificant when compared with what will happen on a world scale in the near future.
After you don do everything wey you fit do about the problem, tell your mind for prayer.		After you have done all you can to solve a problem, heartfelt prayer will certainly accomplish more than worry.
Wetin be some problem wey many of us dey face?		Many of 's people face what discouraging circumstances?
Love People Wey Them No Tire to Preach		Loves Those Who " Bear Fruit With Endurance "
True true, Jesus put other people matter before im own - to help people na the main thing wey show sey Jesus do wetin want.		Yes, Jesus put helping others ahead of personal convenience - helping them was key to his doing God 's will.
Wetin want for young people?		What does want for young people today?
Later, the woman pikin come dey sick and e die.		Later, her son got sick and died.
No Fear, Get Strong Mind, and Do the Work '		Be Courageous. and Go to Work "
don help Israel people win their enemy!		Israel 's enemy was defeated!
Acts 24: 15 ) That time, we go dey do the kind work wey go make us happy well well and make us praise!		Our lives will be full of activity that will contribute to our joy and to 's praise!
How take dey lead im organization wey dey this earth?		How does lead the earthly part of his organization?
If your husband no dey serve, e no go fit teach the family about. But that one no mean sey make you no respect am.		Although an unbelieving husband may not take the lead in spiritual matters, he should be respected because of his position as the head of the family.
Abeg, follow wetin Bible talk for your marriage.		By all means, apply 's principles in your marriage.
After God make the first woman for garden of Eden, e carry am give Adam as wife. God come talk sey: ' Man go leave im papa and mama and e go dey with im wife, and two of dem go be one flesh. ' ( Gen.		We can read what God said near the start of human history: " A man will leave his father and his mother and he will stick to his wife, and they will become one flesh. "
After e don type am on top wetin dem dey call stencil, the mimeograph go dey photocopy am.		In June 1966, an outstanding court case was held in Lisbon.
All of us dey Calgary Sign - Language Congregation now, and I still be elder for there.		We are now part of the Calgary Sign - Language Congregation, where I continue to serve as an elder.
All the people wey dey follow me harvest under sun, fit talk wetin happen. sey I no dey lie.		All my companions who were harvesting with me in the heat of the sun will testify. that what I have said is true.
All this things help our children and grandchildren to put body for work.		In this way our children, and later grandchildren, were very much involved in congregation activities.
And dem fit even stop anything wey fit cause problem.		Because of cooperation between God - fearing mates, situations that cause friction are kept to a minimum or eliminated entirely.
And how papa and mama fit follow work to fit mold their pikin dem?		And how can parents cooperate with in molding their children?
And see!		And look!
Anytime wey things change for us, e fit make our work plenty or small.		Our changing circumstances can expand or limit our sphere of operation.
As dem dey talk, Janet come sofri ask the sister make e tell am wetin e do am, wey make am no dey talk to am again.		During their conversation, Janet tactfully invited the sister to open up regarding her resentment.
As we dey do this one, e go make us ready to fit teach other people.		As our love and appreciation for 's wisdom continue to grow, we will be well - equipped as public instructors.
Because of that one, I no come too dey dress well.		As a result, I did not dress very modestly.
Because we really like Bible, that one dey make us like all our book.		Because we love the Bible, we also love our Bible - based publications.
Bible talk sey: ' When dem dey curse am, e no curse dem back but e put im life for the hand of the Judge wey no dey do partial. '		When he was being insulted, " the Bible says, " he did not insult in return., but he entrusted himself to the One who judges righteously. "
But, dem no do anything, even when dem for fit do something.		Yet, at that critical moment when given a choice between doing something and doing nothing, did they give in to indifference?
But, e good make we no forget sey na dey direct the work. - Isa.		However, it is best to acknowledge that is in control. - Isa.
But e still sey people dey free if government no put law wey no make sense, wey partial dey inside, or wey people no need.		However, it adds: " From a legal point of view, people are free if society imposes no unjust, unnecessary, or unreasonable limits on them. "
But if you go there go dey tell the person sey na im fault, water fit pass garri.		At times, though, by vigorously defending yourself, you make a problem worse.
DAY don dark well well.		IT IS about midnight.
Daniel na Jew person wey dey serve well.		For a faithful Jew, life in pagan Babylon presented big challenges.
David don give the plan of the house wey give am to Solomon and and by this time, David don old.		Israel 's elderly king has received the architectural plan through inspiration and has given it to Solomon.
Dem ' don die leave sin but dem dey alive for God matter because of Jesus Christ. ' ( Rom.		It was similar with anointed Christians, who could consider themselves " dead with reference to sin but living with reference to God by Christ Jesus. "
Dem don gain anything?		How have their lives turned out?
Dem get many things wey dem fit choose from, or wey dem fit use their life do.		Adolescents face a long journey, not by bus, but in life.
Dem talk sey person wey no fit control imself make e no look naked people for book or film, just be like person wey no dey use eye see drink, and person wey no fit stop to smoke cigar or igbo.		Research indicates that individuals who admitted to having an irresistible urge to watch pornography show the same signs of addiction as do alcoholics and drug addicts.
E dey feel sey e no reach anything for God eye. E come even think sey no like am.		She had very low self - worth, to the point of doubting that she was the kind of person God would approve of.
E dey hard some people wey get work before, to see another work.		Some lose their job and have a hard time finding another source of income.
E explain am for 1 Corinthians chapter 13. Some people dey call this chapter the " Psalm of Love. "		In the 13th chapter of Paul 's first letter to the Corinthians - in what has been called the " Psalm of Love " - the apostle explains how love builds up.
E for ask Jeremiah wey be prophet. ( 2 Chron.		Well, he could have asked Jeremiah, one of the faithful prophets.
E get wetin better pass this one?		What could be more important?
E go help us dey do and think wetin good and e go make us dey strong and stand well for side.		It can help us to have the strength to endure hardships.
E good make we remember say, before, we no near God. This one make us be like strangers. ( Eph.		It is good to remember that at one time we were all " strangers, " or foreigners, not close to God.
E mean sey we go know wetin im name really mean and wetin e want make we do.		It means having wholesome reverence for what his name represents, including his standards.
E no get pikin.		She had no children.
E no put ear for wetin talk.		Jehoshaphat should have borne in mind that 's eyes look for those whose heart is complete toward him.
E talk sey: ' So that I fit comot for this place. '		He explained his goal: " In order to get me out of this place. "
Even when we de enjoy small peace, we de struggle make this peace remain with us.		Yet, even when we have a measure of peace, we often struggle to keep it.
For Dublin, e still get another man wey no agree with wetin Brother Russell dey talk.		In Dublin a more determined opposer - Mr.
For apostle time, many people get the mind sey: ' Make we chop and drink, because tomorrow we go die. '		Back in the first century, many had the attitude " Let us eat and drink, for tomorrow we are to die. "
For some part of Ireland, people no dey do things with one mind because of politics and religion matter. But for 1966, the branch office for Dublin come dey direct our work for north and south Ireland.		In 1966 both north and south Ireland were united under the Dublin branch office - a sharp contrast to the political and religious divisions on the island.
For the end of the story, Jesus talk sey: ' I dey tell una sey, na so e go still be, heaven dey happy for one sinner wey repent pass for 99 good people wey no need to repent. ' - Luke 15: 4 - 7.		In conclusion, Jesus said: " I tell you that in the same way, there will be more joy in heaven over one sinner who repents than over 99 righteous ones who have no need of repentance. " - Luke 15: 4 - 7.
Get am for mind sey go help you mek you fit endure. - Read Acts 4: 27 - 31.		You can be sure that will help you to endure. - Read Acts 4: 27 - 31.
God dey protect any pikin wey dem get because the pikin ' holy ' for im eye.		Any children born to them are considered " holy " and thus have a standing with God.
How you go take know wetin want make you do about the kind clothe wey you dey like?		Reflecting on these thoughts may help us come to a decision that will be practical for us and will have our heavenly Father 's blessing.
I don visit pass 600 people since I come Wallkill.		I am told that I have visited over 600 since I came to Wallkill.
I happy sey our book dey reach those area. I no think sey I go ever travel go those area one day.		Though I did not know it at the time, I would have the privilege of visiting many of those places in the years to come.
I happy well well to work with brother Knorr.		Working with Brother Knorr was truly a pleasure.
If the answer na yes, when e happen?		If so, when?
If the pikin do wetin pain dem, make dem no use as e take pain dem punish am.		Parents should not quickly react to the embarrassment of the moment.
Im plan work?		Did Asa 's tactic succeed?
Dey Bless People Wey Dey Find Am, Dec.		Guides His People in the Way of Life, Mar.
angels dey our back.		We have a cavalry on our side.
example show sey e no dey tire to hear prayer		Setting the example, is generous with his time
want make our character holy.		requires that we be holy.
Make we first talk about Jacob.		First, take the example of Jacob.
Many of dem no get money. And e no easy for dem to fit pay transport go the convention.		Most were poor, barely able to pay for a one - way trip to the convention.
Na every time I dey pray make check wetin I dey think about and why I dey think like that?		Do I regularly pray that examine my heart and my motives?
Na if we dey think about the things wey we go enjoy for front. - Rom.		We can imitate Abraham by pondering the joys ahead. - Rom.
Na so e still be if you join another congregation. E fit no easy for you.		Similarly, moving to another congregation may have caused you to experience stress.
Na ten month dem sey e go stay there. After dem release am, e do colporteur ( pioneer ) work.		After his release, Father entered the full - time ministry as a colporteur ( pioneer ).
Na this command big pass and na im be the first. '		This is the greatest and first commandment. "
No forget wetin apostle John talk, e sey: ' This world and everything wey e get dey comot. '		Remember, the apostle John warned: " The world is passing away and so is its desire. "
One book wey dem dey call Wisdom of Sirach, or Ecclesiasticus, ( 23: 11 ) talk sey: ' Person wey dey swear na yeye person. '		The Jewish apocryphal writing known as the Wisdom of Sirach, or Ecclesiasticus, ( 23: 11 ) likewise states: " A man given to swearing is lawless to the core. "
One day im mama want go toilet, but before e reach there, the thing don come out.		As she was trying to clean up, the doorbell rang.
One man wey study language well well, wey e name na John Parkhurst talk sey: ' Many times, when the favor na from God or Jesus Christ, e dey talk about the good thing wey dem do to take save human being from sin. '		It is unearned and unmerited. Scholar John Parkhurst noted: " When spoken of God or Christ, it [ that Greek word ] very often particularly refers to their free and undeserved favour or kindness in the redemption and salvation of man. "
One morning for April 1908, when Brother Russell dey come out from the ship for Belfast, five brothers come greet am.		Five brothers greeted him as he stepped onto the dock at Belfast one April morning in 1908.
One of dem na Branch Committee member now, and two na special pioneer.		One of these young people with whom we studied now serves on the Branch Committee, and two others are special pioneers.
Or what if you think sey elders don make mistake because dem no disfellowship person wey do bad?		What if you believe that mercy was mistakenly extended to a wrongdoer?
Paul tell the brothers wey dey Ephesus sey: ' Una don learn sey make una comot the old character wey una get, wey be the same thing with how una dey live life before and wey spoil because of bad things.		Paul reminded fellow believers: " You were taught to put away the old personality that conforms to your former course of conduct and that is being corrupted according to its deceptive desires.
Satan wey be the Devil dey vex well well and e ' dey waka up and down like lion wey dey hungry dey find person wey e go chop. ' ( 1 Pet.		Satan the Devil is bitterly angry and " walks about like a roaring lion, seeking to devour someone. "
Sergio talk say: " For some time, we no preach for that public area because we de sick.		Sergio relates: " Because of illness, we did not go to the square for a while.
Small time, great tribulation go start. ( Matt.		Soon mankind will face the greatest tribulation that will ever occur here on earth.
So all the time wey e go there, many people gather to listen to im talk. The second time wey Brother Russell go Ireland na for May 1903.		By his second trip, in May 1903, public meetings in Belfast and Dublin were being advertised in local newspapers.
So make we by ourself dey do wetin go make elders and even circuit overseer strong, as dem dey try well well to dey care for God sheep.		So let us personally encourage elders, including circuit overseers, who work hard to care for the flock of God.
So when you get problem with your brothers and sisters, wetin you dey do?		When disputes arise, how do we react?
Some of dem na: if person sleep with another person wey no be im husband or wife; if man sleep with man or woman sleep with woman; if person start to dey lie about organization; and if person dey do juju and other bad things wey elders suppose handle.		The offense did not include such a sin as adultery, homosexuality, apostasy, idolatry, or some other gross sin definitely requiring the attention of the congregation elders.
The new museum still get where person fit see Bible wey many people never see before. Dem go dey change the Bible and other things wey dey this part from time to time.		The new museum also includes a rotational gallery that features rare Bibles and Bible - related artifacts.
The next year, dem come make me and one sister special pioneer. The sister name na Mary Henshall.		The following year, I was appointed as a special pioneer, along with Mary Henshall.
The territory get hill.		Most of the time, I preached by myself.
The third thing wey we go fit do to continue to get one mind, na to forgive people wey do wetin pain us.		A third way we can promote unity is by freely forgiving others.
This na because, the Person wey start marriage, want make husband and wife enjoy their marriage.		But God 's Word provides wise advice for all who choose to get married, for the loving Originator of marriage wants each couple to have a good measure of success and happiness in their married life.
This special arrangement to preach for Turkey, don make many people hear the good news about God Kingdom.		By means of the special preaching campaign in Turkey, the good news reached many more people.
Today, many government no dey gree make their worker ask or even collect anything from people because of work wey dem suppose do for the people. If e collect anything, the government go take am sey na bribe.		In many lands, it is illegal for government employees to seek or accept anything of value for an official action, even if they would be acting in what is otherwise a completely legal manner in the fulfillment of their responsibilities.
We don already learn sey e get sometimes wey things worry David and Paul for mind.		At times, King David felt that his ' errors loomed over his head. '
We need to do wetin go make we and be tight friend.		We have to have a good relationship with him.
We no go stop to love people for our family even if dem dey worry us. But make we remember sey na the love wey we get for and Jesus suppose strong pass. ( Matt.		Even when our relatives oppose our efforts to worship, we continue to love them, but we must remember that our love for God and Christ comes first.
We still learn another better thing from Joseph.		We find a more important lesson in Joseph 's relationship with.
Wetin be some of the things wey you fit use take make your faith strong?		What are some tools that you can use to strengthen your faith?
Wetin we go gain when we " stop to " vex?		What spiritual and physical benefits can we derive by ' letting go ' of anger?
What of you? You fit talk to new people for your congregation before meeting start and when e end?		Why not set the goal to converse with someone new before or after every meeting?
When e no come fit dey comot from bed again, e dey call me to come read for am. I dey read some of the book wey dem never print for am.		Once, when he was bedridden, he asked me to read to him some material that was being processed for printing.
Which question we go ask ourself?		What question should we ask ourselves?
You fit even come see sey e get many things wey una people dey do wey their people still dey do. And sey all the different different people get their good side and bad side.		You may soon realize that you have more things in common than you have differences - real or imagined - and that each culture has its own strengths and weaknesses.
Anybody wey want near God must believe sey e dey, and sey na im dey bless people wey dey try use all their mind find am. ' - HEB.		Whoever approaches God must believe that he is and that he becomes the rewarder of those earnestly seeking him. " - HEB.
Put Mind for the Spirit Make You Enjoy Life and Peace, ' Dec.		Setting Your Mind on the Spirit Means Life and Peace, ' Dec.
So e good to check ourself every time to see whether the things wey dey this world don dey enter our eye. For example, we dey like the kind video, music, friend, and cloth wey people for this world dey like?		This means that we need to examine our heart constantly to see if it is being enticed by worldly entertainment, associations, and styles of dress and grooming.
But this one no mean sey we no know anything about the time wey people go come back to life.		However, this does not mean that we have no information about the timing of the resurrection.
[CONTENT_REMOVED]		See opening image 1. )
Jesus pity people wey dey suffer and e ready to help dem. - Heb.		Hence, he was characterized by deep compassion - a sympathetic awareness of people 's suffering and a heartfelt desire to alleviate their suffering. - Heb.
Martha believe sey people wey don die go come life again for front.		She was sure that would occur in the future.
Na so e still be for Sarah, Isaac, Jacob and many other people wey put mind for the Kingdom wey dey come, wey ' the person wey draw the plan and build am na God. ' - Heb.		The same was true of Sarah, Isaac, Jacob, and many others who focused their hope on the future Kingdom, " whose designer and builder is God. " - Heb.
For Bible time, na men wey dem trust dey hold the things wey people contribute. This men dey make sure sey dem use the things for work.		In Bible times, stewards of dedicated funds followed procedures to make sure that donations were used only for their intended purposes.
Which problem people wey dey learn another language dey face and which question this one dey make us ask?		What specific challenges do those learning a new language face, and what questions does this raise?
No be only that one. Even after e don rule for One Thousand Years finish, e go still wait before dem destroy all im enemy. ( 1 Cor.		It will not be until the end of his Thousand Year Reign that all his enemies will be completely destroyed.
Why e good make we wear the new character for body like cloth?		Why is having the right motive for putting on the new personality so important?
So, e need faith.		Thus, he needed faith.
The thing be sey, know everything wey concern any matter and e dey put am for mind when e dey judge.		Yes, when rendering judgment, takes into consideration factors that are unknown to us.
The one wey better pass be sey, we and, the ' God wey dey give peace ' go be friend. ( Rom.		Above all, we will have a good relationship with, " the God who gives peace. "
The one wey e really dey important pass be say, we de happy because we know say we de make happy. And we still know say love everybody wey them de " endure as [ them ] de produce fruit! "		Above all, we have the deep joy that comes from knowing that we have 's approval, for he loves all those who " bear fruit with endurance "!
Story About People Life - Support Me When I De Face Problem		Life Story - Comforted Through All My Anxieties
If na so e be for you, no worry. You fit still help your children come know and love.		If that is your situation, you can still help your children to come to know and love.
Wetin make us dey sure sey value wetin we dey do for am?		How can we be certain that values our loyal support?
E fit get people wey you know wey dey put mind for their money instead of dem to trust God.		Likely you can think of people who trust in their wealth rather than in God.
But no be wetin Zedekiah do. E go meet Egypt people to come help am fight Babylon. - Ezek.		Instead, Zedekiah turned to Egypt in a fruitless attempt to break free from Babylon 's yoke. - Ezek.
How ' Strangers ' Fit Help Their Children		Helping the Children of " Foreign Residents "
The thing wey Jesus talk happen for one place wey them de call Transcarpathia, for Ukraine.		Consider how his words have proved true in a unique way in an area of Transcarpathia, Ukraine.
Abraham, Joseph, and David get strong faith for and dem trust am. Na this things help dem dey patient.		Remember, too, what helped Abraham, Joseph, and David to wait patiently for the fulfillment of 's promises.
After some time, Daniel die.		Soon afterward Daniel died.
All this things go make the person friendship with strong.		He can thus be strengthened spiritually.
And they go still de check the iron whether e still dey as they arrange - am for their body.		This type of garment restricted a soldier 's movement to some degree, and it required that he regularly check that the plates were firmly fixed in place.
Another thing be sey, for ' the scroll ' wey dem go open, dem write the things wey want make people do for the new world. So, this people wey go resurrect go follow do wetin dey the scroll.		In addition, they will have to follow new beneficial instructions that will be revealed in " the scrolls " outlining 's requirements for living in the new system of things.
As people wey dey stand for Christ, we beg una: " Make una settle with God. " ' - 2 Cor.		As substitutes for Christ, we beg: ' Become reconciled to God. ' " - 2 Cor.
BETTER STORY ABOUT US WEY DON HAPPEN		FROM OUR ARCHIVES
Because Joseph no leave, e see how take correct the matter and how e take bless am with im family.		Joseph 's loyalty gave him the opportunity to see 's hand in correcting the injustices and in blessing him and his family.
Because e know everything wey dey our body. E still know how e go take cure any sickness.		He understands the processes involved and has the ability to undo any damage.
Before e make us im friend, e know sey some things fit hard us well well to change and sey e get sometimes wey we go do things wey e no like.		And he knew that we would occasionally transgress.
Before our pikin dem travel go Tennessee, dem visit the Bethel wey dey London for England.		Prior to moving to Tennessee, our daughters took a trip to London, England, and visited the branch office.
Before person baptize, e need to learn the truth about God.		Before a student can get baptized, he must cultivate faith based on accurate knowledge of God, His purpose, and His arrangement for salvation.
Before the bad thing come, tell yourself wetin you go do so that you no go fall put. ( Ps. 26: 4, 5; Prov.		You can try to foresee situations in which temptations could likely present themselves and decide how you can avoid them.
Bible tell us sey ' come put angels wey be cherub and sword wey get fire wey dey turn round, mek nobody fit go where the tree of life dey. '		The Bible says that " posted at the east of the garden of Eden the cherubs and the flaming blade of a sword that was turning continuously to guard the way to the tree of life. "
But, when you see dem, dem fine well well!		Yet, their blooms are gorgeous to behold!
But e mean sey we no fit change wetin we first choose?		However, that does not mean that we should refuse to change a decision once we have made it.
But e still get people wey get faith that time. This people do wetin talk. Some of dem na Jephthah, im pikin, Elkannah, Hannah and Samuel.		However, the Bible mentions that there were faithful ones, such as Jephthah and his daughter as well as Elkanah, Hannah, and Samuel.
But instead wey Saul go take the correction, e start to blame other people. E come dey talk like sey wetin e do no too bad.		Instead of accepting the correction, Saul made excuses, tried to shift the blame, and minimized what he had done.
But many people dey see am sey that kind life no dey make person happy.		At the same time, more and more people can see that a permissive lifestyle does not bring true happiness.
But wetin help dem?		How did they handle them?
Dem show Wycliffe and people wey dey follow am pepper.		They showed hatred for Wycliffe, his Bible, and his followers.
E carry the empty bag, come smile talk sey: " Una see am?		Finally, he held up the empty bag and said with a smile: ' You see?
E dey hungry us to see the time when this kind thing no go dey again.		We long to see sickness and aging brought to an end.
E dey work for one company wey dey pay am better money. But the thing be sey the work dey chop im time well well.		She had a demanding but well - paying job with a prestigious company.
E don dey reach 300 years since when tell Israel people mek dem kill all the people wey dey serve juju for Canaan, the land wey im promise sey e go give dem.		Every day, Jephthah and his daughter would have been reminded of the results of the Israelites ' disobedience to.
E don tey wey people know sey diamond na better thing.		Diamonds have long been prized as precious gems.
E fit ask imself some question to know whether e go fit.		He can then make an honest evaluation of his circumstances.
E fit be say their story go help you. - Eph.		It is quite likely that you will hear positive experiences. - Eph.
E know sey im condition don change and sey e no fit work like before.		He did not want to take on more than he reasonably could.
E no too tey, something come happen wey go show whether dem really dey carry body down and whether dem trust.		However, their humility and their trust in were likely put to the test by an unexpected turn of events.
E start to do work wey no go make am fight.		He then took up noncombatant work.
E write letter to the Christians for Rome, sey: " E dey hungry me well well to see una, so that I go fit give una some of the better things wey God dey dash person, wey go make una strong; or, so that we go fit dey help each other make our faith strong both una own and my own. " ( Rom.		To Christians living in Rome, he wrote: " I am longing to see you, that I may impart some spiritual gift to you for you to be made firm; or, rather, that we may have an interchange of encouragement by one another 's faith, both yours and mine. "
Even though I feel the pain reach bone, I still remember wetin Jesus talk. E sey: ' Make una happy even when people curse una and suffer una.		Through the intense pain, I recalled Jesus ' words: " Happy are you when people reproach you and persecute you.
Food no be their problem, and dem get work. Dem no dey worry about sickness and death because e no dey that time. ( Gen.		The first couple 's life was completely free from worries about food, work, sickness, and death.
For 1962, dem do Kingdom Ministry School for brothers and missionary sisters for the whole Brazil.		In 1962, the Kingdom Ministry School was held throughout Brazil for brothers and missionary sisters.
For 1970, dem tell me sey I go dey travel go different different branch office. I dey travel every year or every two years and I dey spend some weeks there.		Starting in 1970, I was assigned to travel for a few weeks every year or two to visit a number of branch offices of the Watch Tower Society, making what were then called zone visits.
For 1993, Ute wey come from Germany go do missionary work for Madagascar. Ute dey 53 years now.		In 1993, Ute, from Germany, now in her early 50 ' s, was assigned to serve as a missionary in Madagascar.
For example, the story of our brothers for Ethiopia, Malawi, and Russia dey inside 1992, 1999, and 2008 Yearbook. Their story fit help you endure.		For example, the Yearbooks of 1992, 1999, and 2008 include encouraging reports of our brothers in Ethiopia, Malawi, and Russia.
Give example of how person fit show sey e get strong mind for congregation?		Give examples of courage in the Christian congregation.
God make the angels make dem fit choose wetin dem go do by theirself. Na so e still make the first man, Adam.		When creating the first human, Adam, God gave him the same gift he had given his intelligent creatures in heaven, the gift of free will.
Hannah wey be Elkanah wife na better housewife wey get respect well well.		He was a brave warrior; she was a humble homemaker.
How Noah take know wetin God get for mind for human being?		How did Noah become familiar with God 's purpose for mankind?
How some people take dey use their money and property?		Give examples of how some are showing faithfulness in their use of unrighteous riches.
I dey always go meet am for advice and I dey always do wetin e tell me.		I regularly asked for and applied his advice.
I don die leave sin?		Or am I dead with reference to sin?
I enjoy the food.		It was a very good meal.
I happy well well sey many people for that area don dey serve!		What a blessing it is to have hundreds of there now!
I no be God.		Am I in the place of God?
If we no put eye down, we fit start to put mind for work wey dey pay big money. We fit dey think how to live big man life, or dey show ourself because of wetin we get.		We could easily be enticed by promises of a lucrative career, dreams of a lavish lifestyle, or the desire for a showy display of material riches.
If wetin people dey talk different from wetin you believe, wetin you suppose do?		How can you reject worldly thinking?
If you be single sister wey dey pioneer, you dey fear sey you no go fit pioneer for another country?		Do you wonder if you really have what it takes to succeed as a single pioneer in a foreign country?
If your family people dey give you problem, wetin go help you continue to serve?		How can you maintain your loyalty to if your relatives oppose true worship?
Instead, we go do everything wey we fit do ' to preach well about the good news. ' ( Acts 20: 24; 2 Tim.		Rather, we will do everything in our power " to bear thorough witness to the good news. "
no be like that.		is not like that.
use Jeremiah advise the Jews wey go later be slave sey make dem take the slave life as dem see am and make dem try live their life well.		Through Jeremiah, advised the future exiles to accept their new situation and make the most of it.
Jesus know sey people wey dey follow am go suffer from their family people hand. But e know sey dem go fit still stand well for im side and no shake.		Yet, he was confident that his disciples would have the courage to maintain their loyalty to him despite family opposition.
Like passenger wey dey inside motor wey the driver dey fire speed, na so our preaching work take dey fire speed dey go.		Like passengers in a vehicle gaining speed, we sense the increased momentum in the disciple - making work.
Make the husband and wife no let doctor or another person choose for dem. ( Rom. 14: 12; Gal.		The couple should not expect or allow a third party, not even a physician, to determine what they will do.
Make wetin you get for mind happen for heaven and this earth. '		Let your will take place, as in heaven, also on earth. "
Many of dem get family people and friend wey die, and dem don lose almost all their property.		Many have lost loved ones and nearly all their possessions.
Na for your side I dey put mind every day. '		In you I hope all day long. "
Na only three place this title dey for inside Hebrew Scriptures, for 1 Chronicles, Job, and Zechariah.		In fact, only three books of the Hebrew Scriptures, 1 Chronicles, Job, and Zechariah, mention Satan, which means " Resister. "
Na small small e go dey change.		The cultivating of spiritual qualities is an ongoing process.
Na the same thing dey do for people wey want make e mold dem.		In a spiritual sense, God helps to prepare willing individuals so that he can mold them.
Na true sey for this verse, Jesus dey talk about wetin we go do if person commit serious sin.		Jesus ' counsel here refers to the step to take when someone has committed a serious sin against another.
No. make dem so that as dem dey do this things dem go happy and enjoy life. ( Ps.		No, for saw to it that even in doing such routine things, they could find enjoyment and contentment.
One better lesson wey I don learn be sey, " fit do everything. " - Mark 10: 27.		Indeed, one of the most valuable lessons I have learned in all my long life is that with, " all things are possible. " - Mark 10: 27.
One thing wey e make all of us " brothers " be say, we come from Adam.		Of course, one sense in which we are " brothers " is that all of us have descended from Adam.
Papa and mama, una dey teach una children to dey encourage other people?		Parents, are you training your children to encourage others?
Papa and mama must think about wetin their pikin really need.		Parents must evaluate their children 's needs realistically.
Paul like to dey tell people better word wey dey make dem strong.		Giving encouragement certainly was very important to Paul.
Paul talk sey make we no ever come dey think sey: ' No worry, God understand, e go forgive. '		Paul stressed that we must strongly reject the view: ' Oh, God understands.
So l start training, and l join one boxing organization wey the name na Golden Gloves.		So I started training, and I enrolled in the Golden Gloves, a boxing organization.
Sometimes, tax collector de buy position so that they go fit use - am de collect tax, and then use - am make money.		Tax collectors might purchase a position of authority at a public auction and then profit from what was collected.
That kind example go help am sabi wetin e mean to follow wetin dey Bible! - Heb.		Such examples bring Bible principles to life! - Heb.
The Bible Students that time use all their mind and power do work!		Those Bible Students were zealous!
The first thing be sey, e love well well and e no want do anything wey go mek vex.		First of all, he loved and feared displeasing him.
The first thing wey we go do na to tell how the thing dey worry us reach.		A first step we can take is to approach in earnest prayer.
The love wey husband and wife suppose get for each other, go strong sotey dem even ready to die for theirself.		Marital love shown by Christians should therefore be so strong that either mate would be willing, if necessary, to die for the other.
The main thing wey dey do for us when we dey wahala, na to make our faith strong.		God provides spiritual sustenance first, and then he satisfies our physical needs.
The thing come dey disturb my mind.		It really bothered me.
The truth be sey, Joseph know sey na help am and na im bless am. - Gen.		The point is, Joseph recognized that it was who had rewarded him and blessed him. - Gen.
This person go make sure sey e no leave and e go ready to die for everybody. ( Rom.		That perfect man would need to be loyal to and be willing to give his life in exchange for doomed humanity.
This publishers come from Canada, Czech Republic, France, Germany, Guadeloupe, Luxembourg, New Caledonia, Sweden, Switzerland, United Kingdom, and United States. This school no dey again.		The need - greaters came from Canada, Czech Republic, France, Germany, Guadeloupe, Luxembourg, New Caledonia, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, and the United States.
This thing wey apostle Peter talk no remind you of wetin happen to Israel people for wilderness?		Does that warning not remind you of what befell the Israelites in the wilderness?
To fear mean sey we go respect am.		Fearing 's name implies respecting him.
Today, people wey go rule with Jesus for heaven and people wey go stay for this earth dey serve as one.		Unitedly, both groups serve together today as 's people under one King, Jesus Christ, who is spoken of prophetically as " my servant David. "
Today, the people for this world wey dey enter organization dey plenty well well.		Worldwide, the number of people accepting the good news is growing.
Today too, anybody wey dey do like that dey ' make the spirit of favor vex. ' - Heb.		Even today, anyone doing that " has outraged the spirit of undeserved kindness. " - Heb.
True true, our plan dey change our life.		Each of those decisions came with certain privileges and responsibilities.
True true, wetin Paul warn Christians about for Romans 8: 6 suppose make dem change!		Certainly, Paul 's warning about the possible final outcome for someone who ' sets his or her mind on the flesh ' should be a stimulus to Christians to make any needed changes!
We dey show sey we support God Kingdom today, when we dey follow people wey go join Jesus rule dey preach about God Kingdom for the whole world. - Matt.		Today, we show our support for the Kingdom by assisting Christ 's brothers on earth in carrying out the commission to preach the good news of the Kingdom worldwide. - Matt.
We dey use different different topic wey dey Watchtower take learn Bible every week.		We can enhance our love for Bible truth by regularly attending congregation meetings.
We don learn better thing from Joseph story.		That was a good sign.
We don see sey the copper IUD and the one wey get hormone dey affect where pikin dey grow for woman belle.		As noted, both types of IUDs appear to alter the lining of the uterus.
We fit even go meet elders for some kind matter.		In some cases, we may want to consult with the elders.
We learn sey make we no dey carry body up and make we ready to do wetin tell us.		What a fine example of humility and submissiveness David set for us!
Wetin tell Ezekiel?		What message did give Ezekiel regarding unity?
Wetin dem come tell am?		The response from the Bern office?
Wetin don help some papa and mama wey dey another language congregation to train their pikin to serve well?		How have some parents managed to train their children spiritually while in a foreign field?
Wetin fit give us mind to bear any problem? Today, even when problem dey, many people mind dey come down.		What can help us to endure courageously despite any tribulations or trials we face?
Wetin go happen to the pikin as dey grow?		Yet, what will happen when the child gets older?
Wetin person " need " na something wey be sey if e no dey, e no fit live life.		A " need " is something you must have because your life depends on it.
Wetin the sister, im papa and mama do?		How did she and her parents respond?
Wetin we fit do to help people wey be refugee?		How can we help to fill the greatest needs of refugees?
When Jesus dey this world, e make im disciples see sey people need to learn about God Kingdom.		While on earth, Jesus helped his disciples to see the importance of God 's Kingdom.
When apostle Paul dey stay for Caesarea e sey e want go Jerusalem.		While the apostle Paul was staying in Caesarea, the prophet Agabus told him that if he continued on to Jerusalem, he would end up being arrested.
When dem don do that one finish, na only people wey dey serve God go remain for this earth.		When this is accomplished, only true worshippers of God will be left on the cleansed earth.
When person dey vex, e dey hard am to think well.		When we are angry, we do not always think clearly.
When school close, some of my classmate come block me and dem beat me.		After school, several classmates assaulted me and knocked me to the ground.
Which better thing come out from this public talk wey dem advertise?		The result?
Which example we get today of our brothers and sisters wey dey happy even if dem dey suffer?		What current examples do we have of 's joyfully enduring persecution?
Why some people mind no dey settle when their children want baptize?		Why might some parents have concerns when their children want to take the steps of dedication and baptism?
You come learn how to near. You still learn wetin go make am love you and help you get life wey no go end. - Jas.		As you eagerly scooped up those precious Bible truths, you learned how you could draw close to and keep yourself in his love with everlasting life in view. - Jas.
wetin you promise as special full - time servant?		the vow that you have taken if you are in special full - time service?
For Bible, we learn sey make we put God Kingdom first for our life.		God 's Word tells us to give the Kingdom first place in our lives.
Because dey forgive, people fit still be im friend. This one no dey make you happy?		Because of 's forgiveness, people can continue to enjoy his friendship, and knowing this touches us deeply.
no dey curse us or make us feel sey we dey useless. ( Prov.		He never demeans or insults us, causing us to question our personal value.
Everybody for the congregation that time, whether dem be Jew or dem no be Jew go don happy well well with wetin apostle Peter do.		Likely, both Jewish and Gentile Christians appreciated Peter 's fearlessness in presenting the facts.
Later, other brothers join dem.		Later, additional brothers were added to that governing body.
What if na your friend dem dey make you do wetin no like?		If certain friends influence you to do things that displease, will you cut off association with them?
Bible still talk sey Jesus dey waka for inside the different different congregaton.		The Bible also says that Jesus " walks among " the congregations.
Wetin people wey want marry fit learn from Jehoshaphat example?		What lesson about getting married can we learn from Jehoshaphat?
Na wetin Paul tell Christians for im time be that. E sey: " Make una continue to dey support each other and dey make each other strong, as una dey do now. " - 1 Thess.		As Paul said to fellow Christians of his day, " keep encouraging one another and building one another up, just as you are in fact doing. " - 1 Thess.
Two of dem show sey dem no go ever leave. Even if e no easy for dem, e no ever come their mind sey make dem no do wetin Jephthah promise. - Read Deuteronomy 23: 21, 23; Psalm 15: 4.		These were loyal individuals who would never have thought of breaking a vow that was made to the Most High God - no matter what it cost them personally. - Read Deuteronomy 23: 21, 23; Psalm 15: 4.
Elders and Ministerial Servants - Make Una Learn From Timothy		Appointed Men - Learn From Timothy
So, when we dey do wetin dem talk, we dey follow Jesus Christ, our Leader.		As we follow their direction, therefore, we follow our Leader, Jesus.
About 1,600 years after Job time, Jesus teach people this kind thing when e dey talk about marriage and sex matter. - Matt.		Some 1,600 years later, Jesus Christ taught his listeners to adhere to the same righteous principles regarding marriage and sexual morality. - Matt.
Hushai fit be one of the people wey dey work for the king palace. Im na king friend and dem dey waka together. Sometimes, the king dey send am message wey e no want make people know.		He may have been a court official who was a personal friend and companion to the king, one who at times carried out confidential orders.
What of you? If you really dey pity for people, e go help you put body for the preaching work. And this one go make you dey happy more more.		You may find that kindling a merciful attitude in your heart will motivate you to increase your zeal in the ministry and fill you with more joy as you do so.
Wetin David talk for here, show sey e don take im eye see sey good.		That verse highlights the value of personal experience.
So apart from the things wey we know for Bible, which other thing go help us near?		So in addition to Bible knowledge, what is needed?
Some people wey talk sey dem go come when person invite dem, fit change mind if another person invite dem. Dem fit dey think sey na the other person own go better pass.		Some have at times canceled a previous invitation in order to accept a seemingly better one.
The Person Wey Dey Mold Us		Appreciating as Our Potter
And e no fit make wetin e plant grow.		He cannot speed up the time.
And everything wey e talk na true. I know sey no be Gianni or cause my problem.		I knew that the consequences of my bad choices were not his fault and not 's fault.
Another thing wey go make you get more joy, na to dey do things wey dey make happy.		You also increase your joy by being active in works that please.
As people dey old and dey die go, young people dey do the work wey the old people dey do before.		As one generation replaces another, younger ones take on the work of older ones.
Because many things for life fit shake their faith. Make dem copy Solomon example.		They can learn from and follow the basic example of Solomon as he showed courage in making wise decisions to complete the construction of the temple.
Bible dey help Governing Body.		Reliance on God 's Word.
Bible don talk sey, people go dey enter organization. Dem go come from different different place, and dem go dey speak ' all the language. ' ( Zech.		As foretold, people " out of all the languages of the nations " are flocking to 's organization.
Bible talk sey: " When the man body touch Elisha bone, the man come back to life and e stand up. "		We read: " When the man touched the bones of Elisha, he came to life and stood on his feet. "
Brother Cruz and im family come sey make I come stay with dem for Angat.		The Cruz family invited me to live with them in Angat.
But, I just de feel say na now my eyes de open!		But I now felt that my eyes were being opened!
But, around three hundred years before Jesus time, many of dem no come dey understand Hebrew language again.		However, by the third century B.C.E., many Jews no longer understood Hebrew.
But this things no dey make happy.		The world may view angry behavior as normal, but it dishonors our Creator.
Dem come carry me go check if wetin I talk na true for their camp wey near Vroia, the place wey Bible call Beroea.		When I told the Greek soldiers that I had been held captive by the communists, they took me to be assessed at a military camp near Vroia, the ancient Bible city of Beroea.
Dem sey: " We see everything wey e do. "		They said: " We are of all the things he did. "
Dem want go back to Jerusalem. Dem want go build temple so that dem go fit worship am well again.		With an initial burst of enthusiasm, they got to work on restoring true worship in Jerusalem.
E continue to train e self and e trust to help - am with e spirit.		He kept training himself and relied on 's spirit.
E good make we ask am question about wetin the place talk, repeat the main word wey dey the verse and explain wetin e mean.		We need to take time to isolate portions of the verse - perhaps rereading key words - and explain their meaning.
E no easy to choose better cloth wey dey cover body well, if weather too hot.		In warmer climates, it can be particularly challenging to make sure that our style of dress is respectable and sensible and that it shows good judgment.
E really care for people.		He truly cared for people.
E still get some wey dey go people house go preach, but no be wetin Jesus talk dem dey preach.		Still others may even try to go from door to door, but what are they preaching?
E write sey: ' Every house get who build am, but the person wey make everything na God. ' ( Heb.		He wrote: " Every house is constructed by someone, but the one who constructed all things is God. "
Elijah touch the boy, and e pray make God bring the boy come life again.		While touching the corpse, Elijah prayed: " God, please, let this child 's life come back into him. "
For example, Adam and Eve get the chance to decide the thing wey e good or bad for themself. The demons too succeed to control the governments for this world. ( Gen.		Adam and Eve got the opportunity to set their own standards of good and bad, and the demons attained a measure of influence over human governments.
For example, Adam need to choose whether e go listen to God or im wife.		Adam had to choose to listen either to his Creator or to Eve.
For example, some people dey lie because dem no want pay tax, or dem no want make dem punish dem for wetin dem do.		For example, it is common for people to lie on tax returns or to lie to avoid taking responsibility for their sins.
For the first time for their life, they fit want listen to our message of hope.		When we meet them, they may want to listen to our message of hope for the first time in their life.
For this world wey Satan dey control, peace no dey. Country dey fight country and village dey fight village.		The world under Satan 's influence is still searching for a way to settle national and international disputes.
Gideon and im soldier pursue dem till day break reach like 32 kilometers ( 20 miles )!		Gideon and his men chased the Midianites and their allies all night long for about 32 kilometers ( 20 miles )!
God Word tell all of us sey make we dey obey. ( Deut. 30: 16; Heb.		s own Book directs all of us to be obedient and submissive.
How papa and mama fit follow Jesus example when dem dey teach their pikin?		How can parents imitate Jesus ' example in teaching?
How we take know sey God dey see wetin we dey do one by one?		How do we know that God 's concern extends to individuals?
I come dey help am work for im house and we dey pray the Rosary together every evening.		I did housework for him, and we prayed the Rosary together every evening.
want make we plan our life well. ( Eccl.		urges you to plan wisely for your future.
Jesus ask the people wey dey listen to am, sey: ' Una no better pass [ the bird dem wey dey fly for up ]? '		Jesus asked his listeners: " Are you not worth more than [ the birds of heaven ] are? "
Joseph papa wife get ten pikin wey hate am because na Joseph their papa like pass.		Joseph 's ten half brothers were jealous of him because he was favored by their father.
Just think about wetin e mean.		Put yourself in the word picture that has painted for us.
Me and my wife happy as we go visit the place wey our children for serve.		Maria and I had the joy of visiting the places where our children served.
Na im be the number one person wey dey make our mind come down. E dey pity person and e ready to help us.		Without a doubt, the primary source of consolation is our compassionate heavenly Father,.
Na special thing for the angel to carry message from. Even with that one, e no feel say e too big to carry message go give human being wey they born with sin.		It was a privilege for the angel to act as 's messenger; yet, he did not consider it beneath him to address an imperfect human.
Na the first time wey I see snow be that.		It was the first time I saw snow.
No make friend with person wey fit put you for trouble. ( Prov.		Seek the company of those who will encourage you to pursue worthwhile goals and avoid trouble.
One new thing be sey, pioneer no go dey go another place go preach. Instead, dem go dey preach with their congregation so that dem fit dey help their congregation.		A new territory policy meant that pioneers no longer worked separately from the congregations but along with them, supporting and building them up.
Other people fit like to take care of their friend or people for their family.		Others find satisfaction in caring for family or friends.
Our mind dey really come down because we know sey love us and because e dey do plenty good things for us!		How comforting it is to be aware of the loving care that we receive from because of his generous kindness!
Papa, mama, na una hand e dey to teach una pikin about to make their faith strong.		Parents - you play a major role in the spiritual development of your children.
Prophet Elijah tell dem make dem choose whether dem go serve or the juju god wey be Baal. ( 1 Ki.		The prophet Elijah clearly outlined the choices: Serve or serve the false god Baal.
Proverbs 21: 5 talk sey: " The plan of person wey dey work hard go succeed. "		Proverbs 21: 5 says: " The plans of the diligent surely lead to success. "
So, which person get sense pass, na the person wey make aeroplane or the person wey make bird? "		So who is more intelligent - the maker of airplanes or the Creator of birds? "
Some place for Bible show sey God servant know sey people wey don die go come life again when the time reach.		There are actually a number of passages in God 's inspired Word that show that 's loyal servants knew that a future time of resurrection was in store.
The sister don dey prepare to go where dem send am go for Ecuador. E tell us sey: " Una remember me so?		She was about to leave for her assignment in Ecuador, and she said: " You don 't recognize me, do you?
The slave life wey Israel people live for many years for Egypt no be like this one for Babylon. - Read Exodus 2: 23 - 25.		Exile in Babylon was nothing like the slavery in Egypt that the Israelites had experienced centuries before. - Read Exodus 2: 23 - 25.
The truth be sey, all of us need person wey go encourage us sometimes.		This is true of all of us. We all need a word of encouragement from time to time.
This one make Daniel tire well well sotey e nearly faint.		Daniel nearly fainted from exhaustion.
This one make dem different from fake religion.		God 's people have long upheld his sovereignty.
Two years after my brother start to pioneer, me self start to pioneer. I dey 16 years that time.		Two years later, when I was 16, I was appointed as a pioneer.
We dey handle meeting part turn by turn, and the person wey sitdown go answer all the question.		We took turns, one presented a meeting part while the other answered all the questions.
We dey happy to get all this book because we know sey na part of the better better things wey dey give us.		For instance, we appreciate the spiritual food we receive in the form of books, brochures, magazines, and other literature.
We go dey do wetin like, and we no go put hand for this world matter.		How we can imitate Noah 's faith and obedience.
We go learn sey dem leave wetin dem no fit do for hand and do wetin dem fit do.		As we will see, this involved distinguishing between what they could not do and what they could do and then acting accordingly.
We go see this kind topic for the different different book wey we write for young people.		These topics and many others have been addressed in material designed for teenagers.
We nearly use the whole night take talk about Bible.		We spent most of that night discussing the Bible.
We need to " work hard. "		We need to " press on, " or keep working at it.
We no go ever see the load again. "		You will never have to see them again. "
Wetin be one thing wey make am want go that kind place?		What contributed to that desire?
Wetin fit happen to person wey dey use all im life pursue money and other things?		What can happen to those who use most of their energy to get more things?
Wetin make some Christians for apostle time stop to get love?		What may have caused the love of some Christians to grow cold?
Wetin we go learn for this topic?		What will we now discuss and review together?
When I stand ontop the wood, me and the wood come fall inside the hole.		When I stepped on the logs, they fell into the hole, and I fell with them.
When last days start for 1914, Witness people no too plenty.		When the last days of the present system began back in 1914, God 's servants on earth were relatively few in number.
When we ' dey put mind for the spirit, ' we dey enjoy peace with.		And there is another peace that is of incalculable value.
When we wear the new character, we go dey treat everybody with respect, no matter where dem come from or who dem be. ( Rom.		Those clothed with the new personality treat fellow believers and outsiders with dignity, regardless of their social or racial background.
Why e good make we pray when things start to worry us for mind?		When we are anxious, why is prayer so important?
Why e good to always remember sey na we dey support as King?		Why must we remind ourselves of the importance of the vindication of 's sovereignty?
You go fit join do commuter work for Bethel or remote translation office?		Could you serve as a part - time commuter, helping out at a Bethel facility or a remote translation office?
When We Get Assembly Again?		Love - A Precious Quality, Aug.
E good make dem quick settle any problem wey dem get before day go dark.		Misunderstandings should be cleared away as soon as possible.
Jesus wey get the kind love wey God get, tell people wey dey follow am sey: ' I dey give una new command sey make una love unaself.		Jesus, who imitated God 's love, said to his followers: " I am giving you a new commandment, that you love one another.
You see that ' peace wey dey keep us together, ' money no fit buy am! So make we dey make am strong.		Let us strengthen it and be determined to resolve any differences that may surface among us.
E just be like sey the work big pass dem.		The work before them seemed overwhelming.
All the people wey get faith wey don die before Jesus come die for us and the ' other sheep ' wey die for our time, go still come life again come serve.		Faithful men and women of old who died before Christ 's sacrificial death, as well as all those " other sheep " who die faithful during the last days, will be brought back to life to continue serving.
Try to dey behave like mature person wey dey sofri take advice. No worry yourself about how dem take correct you. ( Prov.		Make it your goal to become a mature person who can take counsel calmly, benefiting from it without worrying excessively about how it was given.
Wetin we go talk about for this topic?		What will we consider?
How life be for people wey believe sey God no dey?		Do philosophies that say that there is no God affect people?
We fit start to dey do things to make people notice us and respect us.		We might be drawing attention to ourselves in inappropriate ways.
Wetin we fit learn from people wey dey allow God spirit direct dem today?		What can we learn from modern - day examples of spiritually - minded people?
Why e good make we ' dey check how ' we dey preach?		Why do we have to " pay constant attention " to the way we preach?
No Let People Mistake Make You Stop to Serve		Do Not Let the Faults of Others Stumble You
But Gideon later do the work because e trust sey go help am. And e do everything wey e fit do to really understand wetin want make e do. ( Judg.		After he accepted 's assignment, Gideon made sure that he thoroughly understood what was required, and he looked to for guidance.
We self want know wetin e be because this vision concern us.		We too want to know, as this vision directly affects us.
How people wey don marry fit manage their problem?		How can such tribulation be kept to a minimum?
And every year, plenty people dey come join us. This people don come love like us.		The love of God flourishes among 's people, and our ranks are growing every year.
Apostle Paul talk about am for the second letter wey e write give Timothy. E talk about the bad character wey people wey no dey serve get. E sey this kind people go full everywhere.		The apostle Paul 's second letter to Timothy describes the characteristics of people who are alienated from God, characteristics that will become more pronounced in the days ahead.
Ask yourself: ' The way I dey live my life dey show sey I really know?		Ask yourself: ' Does my way of life indicate that I truly know?
Because e dey new country, the way people dey do things for im papa and mama country don dey comot for im body.		I couldn 't understand the meetings, and I didn 't identify with my parents ' culture. "
Because of this one, everybody for our family dey happy when e come.		The whole family enjoyed his visits because he was joyful and had a good sense of humor.
Bible talk sey for ' last days, ' people go dey think of only theirself and longthroat go full everywhere. ( 2 Tim.		The Bible foretold that " the last days " of this wicked system of things would be marked by a spirit of selfishness and greed.
But, e come sey: " No look the poverty.		But he said: ' Don 't look at the poverty.
But make sure sey dem write wetin Jesus do for Bible.		But has lovingly provided the Gospel accounts that can make Jesus ' personality come alive in our mind.
But e fit surprise you sey after, the pikin go still ask you the same question again!		Then you find that he raises the same question again later!
Dem talk am tey tey before e happen. Dem go reject the Messiah and dem go kill am.		The Messiah would be rejected and die, but he would be raised to life again to be the chief cornerstone.
E continue to pray make God help am.		Rather, she kept contending by praying with more intensity.
E don pass ten years wey some of dem don dey preach for another country.		Some of them have been serving abroad for decades.
E don promise to comot everything wey dey make us cry. Bible let us know sey, go bring people wey don die come life again.		How comforting it is to know that, the God of all comfort, will eliminate all grief and provide permanent consolation when " all those in the memorial tombs will hear [ Christ 's ] voice and come out "!
E don tell us sey mek we dey gather together, especially as we dey near the end of this world.		He commanded us to keep meeting together, especially as we get closer to the end.
E get the time wey apostle Peter hate people wey no be Jew, but na small small e come learn how to comot that kind bad thing from im mind. ( Acts 10: 28, 34, 35; Gal.		For a while, the apostle Peter harbored prejudice against non - Jews, but he gradually learned to eradicate negative views from his heart.
E get work wey Matthias need to do for God.		Matthias filled a vital organizational need.
E sey: ' Make una wey be wife dey carry body down for una husband. This na wetin the Lord want.		He stated: " You wives, be in subjection to your husbands, as it is becoming in the Lord.
E still talk about how the hope wey we get sey go do better thing for us fit help us.		It also shows how the hope of a reward benefits us.
E talk say: " Our meeting de make my faith strong more - more.		The meetings are a giant boost to my faith, " says Ida.
E talk sey " person wey im body dey control no dey get anything wey God spirit dey give. Dem no make sense to am; and e no go fit know dem. "		The " physical man " is described as not accepting " the things of the spirit of God, for they are foolishness to him; and he cannot get to know them. "
For example: Na true sey person wey dey cook food go taste the food before e serve am give people, but the one wey e taste no fit belleful am.		To illustrate: Although a chef has to taste dishes before serving them, he cannot live merely on the food he samples.
From beginning, want make Adam and Eve children wey no get sin full the whole world. ( Gen.		From the beginning, it was 's will for the earth to be filled with the perfect children of Adam and Eve.
GAIUS and other Christian dem for apostle time face serious wahala.		GAIUS and other Christians in the late first century faced challenges.
Gideon and the 300 soldier wey dey with am don tire. '		He and the 300 men with him were tired. "
Go ' be one group of sheep. ' And na one person go dey lead dem.		All of them would be under " one shepherd. "
Great tribulation go end when God don destroy all the government for this world and the people wey dey support dem. ( Jer.		The great tribulation will reach its climax with the destruction of all the governments of this old world and all those who side with them against God 's Kingdom.
How take tell Moses who e be and why e good make we talk about am?		In what special way did reveal himself to Moses, and why is this significant?
How Revelation 14: 6, 7 take show sey angels dey help God people today?		According to Revelation 14: 6, 7, how do angels assist God 's people today?
How the mama feel as e dey live for another country?		How does she feel about living abroad?
How we fit continue to show sey we value God Kingdom?		How can we maintain wholehearted love for God 's Kingdom?
How we take dey get peace when we ' dey put mind for the spirit '?		In what way does peace result from " setting the mind on the spirit "?
How we take know sey want make our tomorrow better?		How do you know that wants you to plan for a happy future?
How you go take get the mind to bear the problem and still dey happy?		How can you be motivated and strengthened to endure and have joy?
I dey tell how I dey feel! '		I could speak to from my heart! "
I happy well well sey I visit brothers for country wey pass 90!		What a delight to visit brothers in over 90 countries!
If you be pioneer, you don think am whether you fit go School for Kingdom Evangelizers?		If you are pioneering, have you thought about applying for the School for Kingdom Evangelizers?
In short, this brother and e wife de preach like this for six days every week, for the whole year.		In fact, this faithful couple are busy preaching the Kingdom message there six mornings a week, year - round.
Jesus later tell people this kind thing when e come this earth. - Luke 20: 25.		Centuries later, Jesus taught the very same principle. - Luke 20: 25.
Make Una Dey Use Love Settle Quarrel, May		Maintain Your Neutrality in a Divided World, Apr.
Make dem first check whether dem get the time and other things wey dem need to teach their pikin to love as dem dey teach dem the new language.		First, they should determine whether they really have enough time and resources to instill love for in their children while at the same time teaching them a foreign tongue.
Make sure sey the truth wey dey Bible touch your pikin mind ( Check paragraph 14, 15 )		Make sure that the truth reaches the hearts of your children ( See paragraphs 14, 15 )
Make we no forget sey Paul and other people wey serve God well for im time live normal life.		Let us recall that Paul and others in the first century who pleased God were living rather normal lives in many respects.
Many people for Madagascar like Bible well well. Plenty publishers for there don still use their mind go preach for the different different area for Madagascar.		Also, numerous local publishers have been willing to move so as to help in spreading the Kingdom message throughout this vast island territory.
Na 1923 dem born me for Chatham, Kent, England. I grow for where life don tire people.		I was born in 1923 in Chatham, Kent, England, and I grew up in a world full of disappointed people.
Na im mek we go need to ' fight well well for that faith. '		We need to " put up a hard fight for the faith. "
No wonder Bible talk sey ' anywhere wey quarrel and jealousy dey, katakata and other bad things go still dey. ' - Jas.		No wonder God 's Word states: " Wherever there are jealousy and contentiousness, there will also be disorder and every vile thing. " - Jas.
Now, Paula still dey serve well.		Paula continues to serve faithfully.
Now we thank sey e mold us, and we don change; we come be like sheep. ( Isa.		Yet, thanks to 's molding, we changed; we became more like lambs.
One brother talk sey: " I like the way my papa and mama take train me.		One brother wrote: " I am filled with gratitude for the way my parents raised me.
One sister for South Africa talk sey: " When dem disfellowship my brother e come be like sey e don die.		When my brother was disfellowshipped, " said a Christian sister in South Africa, " it was as if he had died.
Plan how you go take do more for God work		Plan how to expand your ministry
Psalm 147 talk sey, God ' dey command the earth, and wetin e talk no dey waste time ' to happen.		can give you the wisdom to cope.
Read Bible with free mind.		Read with an open mind.
See wetin happen to Euodia and Syntyche for apostle time.		Consider the first - century Christians Euodia and Syntyche.
So, make we dey show sey we support how dey rule.		And the settling of the issue of sovereignty is well under way.
So, some brothers wey be Hebrew no come dey treat this sisters well.		Some Hebrew brothers did not treat the Greek widows fairly.
So make we show everybody sey we love dem, especially if dem be new people.		and his organization are our hosts.
That time person no go carry gun go kill another person. " - Wilmer, wey come from Colombia.		We are neutral in the issues of this world: We do not take sides in politics or wars because we are loyal to God 's Kingdom
The first thing wey happen to Amy be sey e come dey miss im family.		For Amy, her initial challenge was homesickness.
The principal come seize the book dem wey e take dey study.		He even confiscated her study materials.
The sister sey: " My mind no settle because of wetin don happen to me and other wahala. I know sey I suppose go meet elders.		When my past and other issues brought me to emotional exhaustion, " she said, " I knew that I had to talk with the elders.
The woman na president for one lesbian group. The group want make dem give dem chance to live their lesbian life.		She was president of an organization fighting for the rights of homosexuals.
Think about the plenty school wey take dey teach im people.		Consider the various schools that promote divine education.
Think am, if we no dey for side, e clear sey na Satan side we dey.		Consider the alternative!
Today, wicked people plenty pass good people.		In today 's world, righteous people are greatly outnumbered by the wicked.
True - true, e good to " tie truth for waist like belt " everytime.		Certainly, it is worth keeping " the belt of truth fastened around your waist " at all times.
True true, people see as we dey preach.		Yes, the campaign was noticed.
Truth come from.		is the God of truth.
We dey happy sey we really get this better chance to take worship for our meeting every week!		What a wonderful opportunity we have every week to worship!
Wetin promise im people sey e go do, and why this kind promise fit surprise people?		What hope did give his people, and why was this promise remarkable?
Wetin Paul tell the brothers for Philippi, and wetin we fit learn from am?		What lesson did Paul highlight when he later wrote to the brothers in Philippi, and what lesson can we learn from his words?
Wetin fit happen if we dey open eye do bad things?		What can happen if we practice sin?
Wetin make one family believe sey na help dem?		Why did one family believe that had exercised compassion toward them?
Wetin show sey dem arrange Bible well?		What shows that the Bible is a well - organized book?
Wetin we dey sure of, and how e take concern our faith?		Of what are we convinced, and how does this strengthen our faith?
Wetin wife fit do to help im husband start to serve?		How could a Christian sister win over her unbelieving husband?
When I look my life, sometimes I de feel like prophet Amos.		Looking back on my life, I sometimes feel a bit like the prophet Amos.
When Jesus dey answer some Pharisee people wey ask am question, e tell dem sey because Moses allow dem to end their marriage, no mean sey na ' so e be from beginning. '		In response to a question posed by some Pharisees, Jesus said that the concession made by Moses to divorce one 's mate had " not been the case from the beginning. "
When we dey read Bible and dey think about wetin we dey read, we go get good sense and we go wise; we go know how to think well before we do things and we go sabi use sense choose better thing wey God like.		By reading God 's Word and meditating on it, we can develop wisdom, insight, good judgment, knowledge, thinking ability, and soundness of mind.
Which example for Bible show sey God fit do pass wetin we think?		What Scriptural examples prove that can do the unexpected?
Why e be like that?		But why is intense effort necessary on our part?
Make una open una heart. ' - 2 Cor.		Open your hearts wide. " - 2 Cor.
Even today, we see sey na better thing to dey read and think about wetin Bible talk.		Today, we too see the importance of reading God 's Word daily and prayerfully meditating on it.
[CONTENT_REMOVED]		See paragraph 15 )
To fit help im pikin, Thomas dey talk with am many times.		Thomas realizes that there may be a need for many discussions over a period of time.
Many example don show sey even people wey no get hope for life before, don get hope because Bible don change their life.		Time and again, individuals who seemed hopelessly lost found their way to the path of life by means of the Bible 's transforming power.
Wetin we fit do to make elders work easy?		So how can you ease the load for the elders in your congregation?
Wetin Mary do really show sey e put mind for wetin God talk about Jesus.		She was clearly interested in God 's purpose in connection with the Messiah.
Even if no be so e be for all the old people, young people get power pass old people. ( Prov.		Even when that is not the case, younger ones may have greater strength and energy than older ones have.
Elders fit help dem get our book dem for their language and help dem sabi other brothers wey dey speak their language.		Elders can help by obtaining literature in the language of the refugees and by helping them contact brothers who speak their language.
If we no want make jealousy make us miss wetin promise, wetin we go do?		How can we prevent jealousy from depriving us of our reward?
Which trap fit catch us today?		What dangers confront us today?
For example, for Bible time, na shame if woman no fit get belle.		In Bible times, barrenness often carried a stigma.
Story About People Life - I No Stop to Be Jesus Soldier		Life Story - Determined to Be a Soldier of Christ
Joseph of Arimathea No Hide Again		Joseph of Arimathea Takes a Stand
Ezekiel talk sey all of dem wey join hand together full everywhere for this earth like cloud. Dem dey ontop horse and dem dey vex come fight God people.		Ezekiel 's prophecy describes these forces as covering the land like the clouds and coming up against us in a fury, riding on horses.
E no tey, wetin we dey learn come dey change our life.		Soon, Bible truth began to transform our lives.
But how we go take know whether we don dey put our work for front instead of work? E good make we ask ourself: ' Na my work dey sweet me pass work? Which kind mind I take dey do work?		To help determine whether we have a balanced view of secular matters and spiritual responsibilities, it is good to ask ourselves: ' Do I find my secular work interesting and exciting but view my spiritual activities as ordinary or routine? '
And if two people dey quarrel, dem dey like to support one person. Dem dey make other people no follow law, and dem dey carry each other go court.		Paul 's first letter to the Corinthian congregation identifies a number of other characteristics of those who have a fleshly attitude.
And na one white sister take e time help me make I begin change.		And it was a white sister who patiently helped me to make the journey.
And that na wetin dem do!		And they succeeded!
And we go still talk about how some people no let their joy go down, even when dem face wahala.		Then we will learn what we can do to maintain our joy and even add to it.
Any better thing come out?		What was achieved?
Because dem be special full - time servant, e no mean sey dem special; na their work special.		It is not the people but their assignments that are viewed as special.
Before that convention, the place wey dem don preach for Mexico no plenty.		Before that event, there was little Kingdom fruitage in Mexico.
Bible even tell us sey dem talk bad things about God.		They were even saying " shocking things " against.
Bible sey: ' Love dey believe everything. '		Love, " the Bible states, " believes all things. "
Bible tell us why e good to help our brothers and sisters and to show sey we love dem.		Bible accounts highlight the privilege we have of showing " brotherly affection " and serving one another.
But, many people dey suffer today because na so so partial full this world.		As a result, individuals have at times become the victims of gross wrongs.
But Jesus no want make im disciples make friend with im and im Father because of wetin dem go gain.		However, Jesus urged his followers to make friends in heaven for unselfish purposes.
Cyril stop the work wey e dey do, and before one month dem don ready to pioneer.		Cyril quit his job, and within a month they were ready to start pioneering.
Dem fit still learn sey Abraham, Job, and Daniel believe sey God go resurrect people when time reach.		And they learn that Abraham, Job, and Daniel were confident that in the future the dead would live again.
Dem judge people wey don die from the things wey dem write inside the scrolls, as dem take live their life.		The dead were judged out of those things written in the scrolls according to their deeds.
Dem sey, ' To teach people wey ready to learn about na im dey make us happy pass! '		They say, " To help humble people learn about is a joy beyond compare! "
E come tell Ruth sey make e come im farm another time.		He then urged Ruth to keep on gleaning in his fields.
E dey hard well well for some papa and mama to follow wetin Bible talk when dem disfellowship their pikin.		One of the greatest tests of obedience that some parents have involves their relationship with a disfellowshipped child.
E dey make person think of wetin e fit do wey go favor the other person.		While it can include affection and warmth, it is primarily identified by unselfish actions for the good of others.
E do wetin God sey make e no do when e chop the fruit wey God sey make e no chop. Adam no use im freedom well.		Instead, he chose to overstep his God - ordained boundaries by eating the forbidden fruit.
E don arrange this demons, wey we no fit see, make they form different - different governments.		Satan has set up an imitation of God 's Kingdom, with himself as king.
E fit still be sey person lie about you because e dey jealous you.		Or the trial you face may be that someone falsely accuses you, perhaps out of jealousy.
E get plenty people wey dem no treat well.		Here is another example.
E give us chance to show young and old brothers and sisters sey we like as dem dey serve well. And we still advise dem make dem continue to serve for im organization.		These visits gave us the opportunity to show appreciation for the faithful service of young and old alike and to encourage them to continue in their special privilege of serving.
E go easy for us to fit settle any quarrel, so that peace go dey.		Differences in personality can also lead to conflicts.
E good make elders dey follow Jesus example when dem dey use Bible correct person. This one go show sey dem ready to allow God and Jesus direct dem.		All who are authorized to give Scriptural discipline are wise when they imitate Christ 's example.
E good sey we pack go there because we come fit dey do meeting for Paraguay and for Brazil.		This proved to be advantageous because we could hold meetings both in Paraguay and in Brazil.
E sey: " For this world, na to go university, make money, make name, and get plenty property, people dey put as the main thing for their life.		She states: " Satan 's world promotes higher education, fame, money, and having a lot of material things as good goals.
E show sey their hand clean. - Acts 20: 26.		This has helped them to remain " clean from the blood of all men. " - Acts 20: 26.
E understand any fear wey we get or if we no dey sure of wetin we fit do to serve am.		He understands any insecurities or self - doubts that we may have.
For 1990, when our pikin Pavel dey 19 years, e come sey e want go pioneer for one place wey dem dey call Sakhalin.		In 1990, our son Pavel, then 19 years old, wanted to pioneer on Sakhalin, an island north of Japan.
For example, when hunger dey Judea for Jesus apostle time, other brothers and sisters arrange make dem help dem.		When famine threatened Judean Christians in the first century, the congregation organized help for them.
For meeting, we still dey learn other things about Bible when we dey hear different different talk wey brothers dey give, different different demonstration wey brothers and sisters dey do, and the Bible wey dem dey read.		At the meetings, we also learn more about the Bible by paying attention to talks and demonstrations and by listening carefully when the Bible is read.
For morning, they go waka go one area wey people plenty for town.		Lately, their sore legs make moving about more difficult.
For the night wey Jesus do the first Lord Evening Meal, e pray sey make im disciples get one mind. For the prayer, e talk sey im and im Father value the one mind wey their two get.		On the night of the first Lord 's Evening Meal, Jesus prayed that his followers would all be united and that they would enjoy the same unity that he and his Father treasure.
How take bless Joseph?		How did reward Joseph?
How brothers and sisters for congregation fit show sey person fit trust dem?		How can members of the congregation prove themselves trustworthy?
I come answer am sey: " And wetin God go talk? "		I replied: " And what will God say? "
I de happy when I win any fight. "		When I win a struggle, I feel better about myself. "
If Solomon no get strong mind, fear fit make am no do this work. And that one go bad well well.		If Solomon did not prove to be courageous, fear could paralyze him, and inactivity would be worse than failure.
If elders announce wetin dem don agree to do about matter and you no like wetin dem talk, wetin you go do?		How will you respond if the elders announce a decision that you do not agree with?
If you dey tell your friend your problem, you no go like am if e put ear for wetin you dey talk?		And a good friend will listen carefully when you tell him about your problems and concerns.
Instead make dem find short cut wey go make dem play wayo take get money, dem dey put eye for their work and dey do am well.		Rather than look for an easy but dishonest way out, they strive to work hard and be diligent.
James Parkes wey dey write book talk sey: ' Dem let Jew people continue to dey do as dem dey do for their culture.		Writer James Parkes observes: " The Jews. had the right to retain their own observances.
go come know how to answer anybody wey want insult am. ( Prov.		That contributes to making a reply to any who would try to taunt him.
no go take am easy with dem at all.		On the part of his sincere worshippers, there must be a genuine hatred of wickedness.
Jesus still show for that prayer sey na God Kingdom suppose be first. ( Matt.		In that same model prayer, Jesus gave priority to praying for God 's Kingdom to come.
Life dey tire person for there because of the dust and too much breeze wey dey blow.		The constant dust and wind made life miserable.
Make we see two way.		Consider two ways.
Mature sisters for congregation na real blessing!		Older women are a blessing to the congregation.
Mek sure sey you get time to dey study Bible and no miss any of our meeting.		We must be determined to spend time in personal study and at our meetings.
Na one, two, or e pass?		One, two, or more?
Na small small our pikin go take get faith. "		Our children acquire it little by little. "
Na so! When preaching dey our blood, no shaking!		Yes, our love for the ministry can defeat persecution.
Na so e still be today, anybody wey want enjoy God blessing and be im friend, go carry this correct word wey dey Hebrews 11: 6 for mind, e sey: ' Anybody wey want near God must believe sey e dey, and sey na im dey bless the people wey dey use all their mind find am. '		To gain God 's approval and blessing, they should keep focused on the assurance that we read at Hebrews 11: 6: " Whoever approaches God must believe that he is and that he becomes the rewarder of those earnestly seeking him. "
One brother dey always give us money wey dey reach us take care of ourself.		A Christian brother regularly gave us money to make up for the shortfall.
One sister for France write sey: " The topic wey be ' Was It Designed? '		A sister in France wrote: " The ' Was It Designed? '
Or na to make peace with the brother or sister and still be friend dey your mind? - Read Psalm 119: 165; Colossians 3: 13.		Or was your main concern that of making peace with your brother and remaining loyal to? - Read Psalm 119: 165; Colossians 3: 13.
Our faith fit weak and we fit stop to love God because of condition.		Succumbing to discouragement can also weaken our faith and cause our love for God to grow cold.
Paul and Barnabas put their life for danger when dem go back to where people want kill dem before.		Paul and Barnabas risked their lives by going back to places where they had suffered violent attacks.
People wey them dey under Roman government, even followers of Jesus, de pay tax for many things like, things wey them de sell, their land, and house.		Subjects of Rome, including those who listened to Jesus, were required to pay many taxes, such as on goods, land, and houses.
SONG: 142, 129		SONGS: 142, 129
So Jesus warn e disciples say: " Make wuna eye dey open; and protect wunaself from the yeast of Pharisee people and the yeast of Herod. "		Politically, the Pharisees supported Jewish independence.
Some people wey plan to use their life do full - time work for, don dey Bethel now.		Some who acted on their plans to serve full - time are now at Bethel.
TODAY, many people for the world dey talk sey everybody suppose get the same right and freedom.		TODAY, there is much talk about equality, liberty, and freedom.
The brothers talk for one Yearbook sey the carton wey dem sleep put " soft and warm pass ground wey dem cement. "		The Yearbook account commented that the grateful guests found these " beds softer and warmer than the cement floor. "
The pikin wey don find where e go stay dey grow go die, and this one go be like abortion.		Ending the developing life would be like an abortion.
The way dem translate am match wetin the rest verse dey talk.		The revised wording fits in well with the rest of the psalm.
The way heaven and earth be, show sey dey arrange things well.		The universe truly is a marvel of organization.
This one de show say we like peace. For example, for one country for Africa, the government no like us. Na this one make they no want give us permit make we de build Kingdom Hall.		For example, the government of one African country allowed prejudice to prevent it from granting approval for the building of Kingdom Halls.
This one go make am believe sey na im go gain if e dey always do wetin Bible talk. - Deut.		Which one? That Bible standards are always in their best interests. - Deut.
This one mean sey you tell sey you go continue to serve am even if your papa, mama, or friend dem stop to dey serve am. ( Ps.		That means that you have told the Sovereign of the universe that you will continue to serve him even if your friends or parents stop doing so.
This topic talk about how we fit use our property ' take make friend ' with and Jesus.		This article examines how we can use our material possessions to " make friends " in heaven.
To help dem preach well, you fit tell dem wetin people wey dey the area believe.		You could also help them to be more effective in their ministry by relating to them the history of the community or by explaining the local religious beliefs.
True - true, even as we de live for world wey peace no dey, we fit get peace of mind, get peace for our family and for congregation.		Clearly, despite living in a hostile world, we can have inner peace that contributes to harmony within our families and with fellow Christians.
True true, when we do wetin want, e dey bless us.		It is undoubtedly true that doing what asks of us always brings blessings.
We go de do the things wey Jesus command us.		By observing Jesus ' commandments.
We go still see how their example fit help us remain as one for this world wey people divide.		We will also see how their example can move us to do the same in our divided world.
Wetin organization don give us wey don help you study Bible well?		What tools have helped you in your personal study?
Wetin Jesus do when plenty people come meet am?		How did Jesus respond to the condition of the crowds who followed him?
Wetin Jesus preach, na the ' good news about God Kingdom ' and na wetin e want make im disciples preach be that.		Jesus preached " the good news of the Kingdom, " and he expects his disciples to do the same.
Wetin be some of the things wey no clean for God eye? Other things wey no clean.		What are some things that can make us unclean in God 's eyes?
Wetin fit make us respect and praise some people, and wetin we go learn for this topic?		Why might some individuals deserve to be honored, and what will we now discuss?
Wetin help Job know well?		How did Job gain an accurate knowledge of God?
What of some of our brothers wey dey keep beard beard?		What about the propriety of brothers wearing a beard?
When I dey 19 years, one of our family friend wey im name na Bud Hasty tell me sey make I come join am dey pioneer for United States.		When I was 19, Bud Hasty, a family friend, asked me to join him in the pioneer work in the southern United States.
Which kind suffer Rudolf Graichen suffer, and wetin help am endure?		What trials did Rudolf Graichen experience, and what helped him to endure?
Which other thing we fit do to support?		How does imitating God show support for him?
Why? We don too see bad condition for life sotey e no come be anything for many people.		We have lived in this old world so long that we may have stopped noticing how much stress we feel over world conditions.
Why we dey sure sey go always judge matter well?		Why can it be said that is incapable of injustice?
know sey love you?		appreciate 's personal interest in you?
when language change?		changes in language?
I be James, slave of God and Jesus Christ. This one na for the 12 tribe wey they scatter for the whole world: I greet wuna. " ( Jas.		James, a slave of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ, to the 12 tribes that are scattered about: Greetings!
God wey dey pity person. ' - EX.		a God merciful and compassionate. " - EX.
E treat everybody the same way.		First, he rejected prejudice, being totally impartial.
Na im make as dem sin, God no waste time arrange wetin go make people fit be im friend again. And wetin e do no change the kind person wey e be.		So right after the rebellion, God made arrangements to enable humans to restore their friendship with him while he at the same time maintained his own righteous standards.
Na wetin make e good to use free mind read Bible.		That is why we need to read the Scriptures with an open mind.
What if person talk sey e don give im life but e continue to do bad things?		But more is needed than adhering to 's elevated moral standards.
But remember sey, any time wey we do wetin talk, we dey make am happy. - Proverbs 27: 11.		But each time we choose to obey, we make him happy. - Proverbs 27: 11.
Later, Paul come still talk the kind mind wey e get for Jesus disciples.		Before he became a Christian, Paul was " breathing threat and murder against the disciples of the Lord. "
Jesus still die for everybody, even though sey many people no like am.		Jesus even gave his own life in behalf of mankind, though many hated him.
When Jesus dey for Nazareth, e talk about the way favor people from another country. For example, the Phoenician widow from Zarephath and the Syrian leper wey e name na Naaman.		In his hometown of Nazareth, Jesus spoke of how had favored foreigners, such as the Phoenician widow from Zarephath and the Syrian leper Naaman.
We de hungry to be with Daniel again for Paradise! - John 5: 28, 29.		How we long to be with him when he is resurrected in God 's new world! - John 5: 28, 29.
How things take change for Paul?		How did Paul 's situation change unexpectedly?
Wetin we go do to get the freedom wey dey give and enjoy am?		What must we do to enjoy the freedom that comes from?
Which question we go answer for the next topic?		What question will be answered in the following article?
Part of the things na the video The Wonders of Creation Reveal God 's Glory, the brochure Was Life Created?		These aids include the video The Wonders of Creation Reveal God 's Glory, the brochures Was Life Created?
If person invite us, and we agree to go, make we no change mind, unless serious thing happen.		If we accept an invitation, we should not cancel frivolously.
How marriage for our time suppose start?		How should a Christian marriage begin?
Make we copy their example.		The same can be true of us.
So, for February 15, 1946, dem baptize me and another brother for one river wey no far from where we dey.		We went to a nearby river, and two of us got baptized on February 15, 1946.
Rom. 12: 12 ) When we dey pray, we dey talk to God. Prayer dey make us near God more more.		Communication through prayer is the foundation of a close relationship with God.
Wetin e gain?		Noah got it right the first time.
Go Make People My Disciple for The Whole World '		Go,. and Make Disciples of People of All the Nations "
After Armageddon, anything like government go still dey this earth?		After Armageddon, will there be any organization on earth?
All this example show say love de remove any partial from our heart.		Such changes in attitude are a testimony to the fact that Christian love can and does conquer prejudice.
As people wey dey serve, we must hate wicked things.		These accounts are also a loving reassurance from our heavenly Father.
Bank Account: This na contribution wey person go arrange with im bank sey if e die, make the bank give Witness branch office for im country the money wey dey im bank account.		Bank Accounts: Bank accounts may be made payable on death to an entity used by 's in accord with local bank requirements.
Because of how Sarah old reach, you think sey e know sey go let am born im own pikin?		Did aged Sarah expect that would allow her to give birth to her own son, not just receive as son the child produced by her servant girl?
Bible talk sey: ' Power to think go protect you. ' How?		One step is for you to use your God - given thinking ability, which " will keep watch over you. "
But Jesus no only tell e disciples wetin they need to do, e still tell them why they need to do - am.		However, Jesus told his disciples not only what they needed to do but also why they should do so.
But for eye, no be miracle. Why?		From 's standpoint, this was no miracle.
But if you no start to do good thing, sin dey door dey wait for you. The sin want control you, but you go fit control am? " ( Gen.		But if you do not turn to doing good, sin is crouching at the door, and its craving is to dominate you; but will you get the mastery over it? "
But na when other people follow me cry, na im my mind dey come down pass.		That is why I get some comfort when friends cry with me.
But now we be like one family and e dey make me happy. "		But now they feel more like family, and I am happy. "
But wetin concern the ark wey Noah build with baptism?		What is the point of Peter 's illustration?
But when we really look am, na wetin Jesus talk sey make we do be that?		How do these claims measure up when compared with what Jesus commanded his disciples to do?
Dem carry me go court two times, but the court cancel the case.		I was brought before two tribunal courts, but my case was dismissed.
E come be like sey I dey reject the sacrifice wey use im Pikin do.		It was as if I had been throwing the ransom back at.
E continue to dey train imself.		He kept training himself.
E dey patient and get better mind. Na love dey make family strong. E still dey make congregation get one mind. - Col.		Additionally, because love is thoughtful, considerate, patient, and kind, it builds affectionate families and united congregations. - Col.
E get one man wey dey study science matter for University of Nebraska for United States.		If you are happy and satisfied with your life now, you are more likely to be healthy in the future.
E really make - am hard me to do wetin want, and this one no make me happy. "		For a while, I lost my confidence and felt depressed. "
E still get some brothers and sisters wey dey full - time service before, but something later make dem stop. We still need to encourage this brothers and sisters.		And those whose heart is still in the full - time service but who for various reasons have had to limit their activity also appreciate receiving encouragement.
E still good make we ask ourself: ' Which of the brother or sister better character I fit copy? '		Also, of great importance is the question: ' Which of his good qualities can I benefit from? '
E sweet me sey many of dem don join me. '		I 'm happy to say, many have. "
Even now, e de hard me to explain the kind pain wey we feel.		Even now I struggle to describe the anguish that we felt.
For April, 20 Bible Students for Belfast welcome 2,000 people wey come hear the talk.		In the spring, 20 Bible Students in Belfast hosted 2,000, who heard the talk " Hereafter. "
For example, e never tey wey many congregation study the Draw Close to book, for Congregation Bible Study.		For example, most congregations recently studied the book Draw Close to at the Congregation Bible Study.
For some country, dem dey push young people to go university. Many people feel sey this one go help young people get better work wey go give dem big money.		In some lands, young ones are pressured to set goals that center on higher education and a well - paying job.
For some kind matter, two Christians fit choose different things even if they use Bible train their conscience.		On certain matters, two different Christians with Bible - trained consciences might come to opposite conclusions.
Help ' Strangers ' Serve With Sweet Mind, May		Were Merchants Who Sold Animals in Temple " Robbers "? June
How Adam take use im freedom, and wetin come happen?		How did Adam misuse his free will, and with what result?
How I take know the answer?		How did I know the answer?
How take change the way Job dey think? Wetin Job come do?		What did help Job to appreciate, and how did Job respond?
How Zechariah Vision Take Concern Us Today?		What Jewish Practice Caused Jesus to Condemn the Swearing of Oaths?
How e be sey, the kind person wey be fit make us dey carry body down?		How does reflecting on help to keep us humble?
I don nearly reach 19 years that time, but e dey 25 years.		I was almost 19 and from the city; she was 25 and a country girl.
I like wetin e teach us.		I liked what I was learning.
I no dey vex like before again. Na peace I dey make with people now. Before, I be like bomb wey ready to blow when person do me small thing wey make me vex. "		With 's help, I now have an overriding sense of peace and calm, whereas before I was a time bomb of bitterness and rage, ready to explode at the slightest annoyance. "
go forgive us finish when we show sey we get faith for Jesus sacrifice.		The door to complete forgiveness opens to us when we exercise faith in the ransom.
Jesus talk sey: ' Where una keep wetin una value, na there una mind go still dey. ' - Luke 12: 34.		Jesus said: " Where your treasure is, there your hearts will be also. " - Luke 12: 34.
Kevin wey we don talk about do wetin e fit do to control im temper.		Kevin, who was mentioned earlier, worked earnestly to bring his temper under control.
Luke talk about wetin happen when Mary and im family go temple. That time, Jesus dey 12 years. Luke even tell us wetin Mary talk when dem see Jesus, but e no tell us wetin Joseph talk.		Even in the account of her family 's visit to the temple when Jesus was 12 years old, Luke quotes the words of Mary, not those of Joseph.
MARTHA na Jesus tight friend, and na im disciple. But Martha dey cry.		JESUS ' close friend and disciple Martha was grieving.
Make dem ready to talk wetin dey their mind but with respect.		He or she will be willing to talk kindly but openly when needed.
Make we dey direct people go the website wey organization dey use.		By directing interested people to our official websites, we are connecting them with the one true source of spiritual food, " the faithful and discreet slave. "
Many of servant today dey do like Jesus because dem no let problem or any other thing comot their mind from wetin dem dey wait for.		Millions of modern - day worshippers of God are following the example of Jesus by keeping their hope in clear focus and not allowing trials to weaken their faith.
Mek we do like Jephthah and mek we dey do wetin want.		Let us imitate Jephthah and obey.
Na from King James Version dem carry some English idiom like: " fell flat on his face, " " the skin of my teeth, " and " pour out your heart. - Num.		A number of English idioms can be traced back to the King James Version. Examples include: " fell flat on his face, " " the skin of my teeth, " and " pour out your heart. " - Num.
Na so I still dey do for afternoon.		I followed a similar routine in the afternoon.
Na so Philippi just be.		Philippi was such a city.
Na so e still be for some refugee today. Lije come still talk sey, ' many papa and mama wey see as other people dey rape and kill their family people, no fit carry their children go back to where this things happen. '		Further, as notes Lije, " many parents who saw family members raped and murdered cannot bear to bring their children back to where those tragedies occurred. "
Na this one go help us choose good things so that go happy with us. When Jesus de teach e disciples, e use word wey e fit guide them.		To understand a principle includes understanding the thinking of the Lawgiver and the reasons why he gave certain laws.
Na wetin one man talk be that. Im name na Noam Chomsky. E talk sey: ' Nobody go pack truth put for your brain.		But remember this basic fact expressed by author Noam Chomsky: " Nobody is going to pour truth into your brain.
Now, e no dey shame like before again.		Now I am not as shy as before. "
Our family no dey play with convention and assembly at all!		Conventions and assemblies were an important part of our lives.
Papa and mama, make una show sey una get strong mind.		Will you be courageous and tactfully explain the reason for your decision?
Plenty work still dey for am for congregation.		There was also much work to do in the congregation.
Prayer and personal study don help me fit manage my problem.		Prayer and personal study have been like a life jacket that has kept my head above water.
Preaching come dey hungry me more more. So, for March 1940 me and my mama come baptize for Dover.		My desire to give others a hope for the future continued to grow, and my mother and I got baptized in Dover in March 1940.
Remember sey God spirit dey help us dey patient. ( Eph. 3: 16; 6: 18; 1 Thess.		Remember, patience is an aspect of the fruitage of the spirit.
Rutherford and Brother W.		Rutherford and W.
Since na make everything, na true sey anytime wey we do good thing to person, dey look wetin we do like sey e dey owe us something. And, na true sey e go use favor and blessing take pay us back.		Can we conclude that the Creator of the universe considers himself to be indebted to mere humans who perform deeds of mercy and that he views such giving as loans that he repays with favor and blessings?
Some of dem fit even talk anyhow like Job. ( Eccl.		Like Job, some may even speak rashly at times.
The eight vision wey Zechariah see na im give God people mind pass. And na this one be the last vision.		The last of Zechariah 's eight visions may perhaps be the most faith - strengthening.
The elder wey help Graham still talk sey: " E get one day wey Graham talk wetin touch my heart.		The elder continues: " One day, Graham told me something that touched my heart.
The last one talk say: " Their example de touch my heart. "		Their example warms my heart.
The woman sey e go like to get new magazine every month, and e want make I see im husband wey im name na Gary.		She accepted a magazine subscription and wanted me to meet her husband, Gary.
The women come born giant because e no normal for angel to marry human being.		This unnatural union of materialized angels and women produced violent hybrids known as Nephilim.
This new work wey give you, don really make you happy.		Understandably, though, you may also feel a little anxious.
This one make am like dem well well.		He loved them for the zeal that he had seen in them, and this had had a powerful impact on him.
This one make me learn many things wey I no sabi before.		This resulted in many more learning experiences.
This sense fit make us no put hand for bad thing, and e go help us hold tight.		And that wisdom can safeguard us from moral and spiritual harm.
To fit do the work well, the mature sister need to show sey e get strong mind.		She will not scold the sister about her choice of clothing, but she may be able to encourage the younger one to consider how her choice of clothing may affect others.
To know the answer, make we talk about the problem one by one.		To answer, let us consider those problems more closely.
We dey always happy to tell dem about the time wey we be missionary.		Also, we often talked with fondness about our time in the missionary work.
We go fit use the video Wetin Dey Happen for Our Kingdom Hall?		We can do this by using the video What Happens at a Kingdom Hall?
We go talk about Jacob, Mary, and Jesus.		We will consider the examples of Jacob, Mary, and Jesus.
We never even tey for Armavir when Russia police just come our house.		It did not take long before KGB officers began to raid our home, looking for Bible literature.
We suppose warn everybody before this world go end! - Matt.		Everyone needs to hear the warning before the end comes! - Matt.
Wetin Antonio come do?		How did Antonio react?
Wetin Bible talk about time to rest and relax?		What do the Scriptures teach about rest and relaxation?
Wetin Zechariah see for the sixth vision, and why dem write for the two side?		What did Zechariah see in his sixth vision, and what is significant about the scroll 's having writing on both sides?
Wetin be the main thing wey dey make us support as King?		What is our primary motive for upholding 's sovereignty?
Wetin help dem?		How did they succeed?
Wetin make person wey dey ' put mind for the flesh ' different from person wey dey ' put mind for the spirit '?		What is the difference between " setting the mind on the flesh " and " setting the mind on the spirit "?
Wetin the person wey write Psalm 147 talk about?		What does the psalmist observe about 's healing power?
What about people wey die the time wey God no dey give people power to do miracle?		What can we say, however, about those who died at other times in history?
When one person ask am which commandment big pass, e talk sey: ' " Make you use all your mind, all your body and all your sense love wey be your God. "		Responding to a question about the greatest commandment, he said: " ' You must love your God with your whole heart and with your whole soul and with your whole mind. '
When we dey go meeting, we dey show sey we want do wetin e tell us.		When we go to the meetings, we show that we want to obey him.
When you dey sing from your heart, other people go do like you.		When you sing out joyfully, you will also encourage others to sing with confidence.
Which example dey Bible?		Give a Bible example.
Which place and which time e write am?		Where and when was it written?
Why e talk sey make God people dey praise?		What was it about that impressed the psalmist so much that he wanted God to be praised?
You dey gain well from the things wey you dey read for Bible?		Are you getting the most out of your Bible reading?
You dey learn from the example of people wey get faith for your congregation?		Are you benefiting from modern - day examples of faith in your congregation?
You leave your wife wey get belle and your small daughter.		You 've abandoned your pregnant wife and baby daughter.
Use this world property take make friend. ' - LUKE 16: 9.		Make friends for yourselves by means of the unrighteous riches. " - LUKE 16: 9.
God know sey we go fit serve am well if we dey read Bible for the language wey dey touch our mind.		He knows that humans can better fill their spiritual need when they read his thoughts in the language of their heart.
But this advice no be only for sisters.		In principle, this counsel applies equally to Christian men.
Susi wey we talk about before, talk sey: " E get many times wey we go just kneel down dey beg to make our mind come down.		Susi, quoted earlier, says: " There were so many times when we just dropped to our knees and implored to comfort us.
Just as Jesus promise, we go really dey free for future. That time, we go don get all the gain from Jesus sacrifice.		Just as Jesus promised, we will be truly free when the benefits of his ransom sacrifice are fully applied to us.
So that we go fit do wetin Jesus talk, make we no let anything make Jesus dey see us dey sleep when e come.		To do that, we need to guard against negative influences that could cause us not to be alert and vigilant with respect to Jesus ' coming.
Wetin Asa do when Ethiopia people come fight im and im people?		How did Asa respond when the Ethiopians were threatening Judah?
Which kind plan fit help you do more for God work?		What is a goal you may set in 's service?
Why e be sey na only get right to do anything wey e want?		Why does alone possess absolute freedom?
How take answer Nehemiah prayer?		How did God respond to Nehemiah 's prayer?
If dem no quick kill the person, the land no go clean for eye.		This act atoned for the innocent human blood that had been spilled.
So, we fit dey sure sey wetin get for mind from beginning go happen when the time reach!		Therefore, we can be certain that 's original purpose will be fulfilled exactly on time!
Which advice Bible give about sex for marriage?		What advice does the Bible give regarding sexual relations in marriage?
Dem still write for inside sey: ' This one no mean sey we no know wetin we dey do or sey we want control wetin other people dey do.		It said: " This represents no effort to act in an arbitrary, dictatorial manner.
How people wey they hate Jesus try make e support one side for politics?		How did Jesus ' enemies try to get him involved in a political issue?
After I don go meeting for some time, one old brother wey im name na Damian Santos come sey make I come sleep for im house. Im na pioneer, and na mayor e be before.		After several more meetings, Brother Damian Santos, an elderly pioneer who was an ex - mayor, invited me to stay overnight.
After Kumiko comot for hospital, e come go stay for Nepal small. Later, im and im pioneer partner come travel go pioneer for Nepal.		After being released from the hospital, Kumiko visited Nepal, and later she and her pioneer partner moved there.
After that one, we continue to dey talk to each other for some time, and for 1956, we come marry.		After that, we corresponded for a while, and in 1956, we got married.
And when we know sey how we dey dress dey make people praise, we no go remember how the better cloth hard us to find.		And the satisfaction we have of bringing glory to our loving heavenly Father more than makes up for any inconveniences that we may face to dress so as to glorify him.
As I dey visit different different congregation for the area, I give talk for gazebo ( something wey be like canopy ), for market, for town hall, for where dem dey play basketball, for open place where people dey relax, and plenty times for street.		I soon learned that it was the custom in the Philippines in those days for a public talk to be really public!
As all the congregation dey do wetin the governing body talk, dem ' continue to dey strong for faith and dem come dey plenty every day. '		As congregations observed those decrees, they " continued to be made firm in the faith and to increase in number day by day. "
As we dey do am, we follow dey make peace and dey help congregation to be one.		Doing so, we contribute to the maintenance of our precious peace and unity.
At last, all of us come dey worship.		At last, we were all worshipping.
Bank Account: This na contribution wey person go arrange with im bank sey if e die, make the bank give Witness branch office for im country the money wey dey im bank account, or im pension money.		Bank Accounts: Bank accounts, certificates of deposit, or individual retirement accounts set up as a trust or made payable on death to an entity used by 's in accord with local bank requirements.
Bible help us know sey Joseph no support the bad things wey the Sanhedrin plan for Jesus.		To Joseph 's credit, the Bible reports that he did not support the Sanhedrin 's plot against Jesus.
Bible still talk sey, ' dey bring wicked people come down. '		On the other hand, God " hurls the wicked to the ground. "
But Paul shout say: " Make you no kill yourself! "		But Paul called out: " Do not hurt yourself! "
But e good make dem sitdown look how this IUD take dey work.		On this matter, each Christian couple can evaluate the relevant facts and Bible principles.
But na only people like elders go fit encourage other people?		But is it only those in authority who should imitate in giving encouragement?
But now, you go need to arrange yourself again and make new friends, like that tree wey go need to grow new root.		Now you must grow new roots in order to flourish in a new environment.
But one day, the man see the one wey better pass other ones wey e don see.		Yet, now he had found the one pearl that was so magnificent that just seeing it made his heart rejoice.
But the war no too affect us because our village far from where the war for dey happen.		However, our village was relatively remote, so we were not directly affected by the armed conflict.
But to fit collect Jesus body, e go first ask Pontius Pilate.		Pontius Pilate was known to be extremely stubborn.
But wetin don do so that people go still dey understand Bible?		How has God seen to it that such developments do not make his Word unclear to people?
Check September 15, 2006, Watchtower page 30, under " Questions From Readers. "		See " Questions From Readers " in The Watchtower, September 15, 2006, p. 30.
Check the brochure " See the Good Land, " pp. 32 - 33 ( for English ).		See the brochure " See the Good Land, " pp. 32 - 33.
Dem even talk sey our tomorrow dey our hand, e no concern God.		Those who say that there is no God claim that our future is entirely in our own hands.
Dem no dey train their pikin like people wey no know God.		Godly parents are not unduly influenced by local cultural views about child - rearing.
Dem pray before dem start to talk about the matter and dem talk am for one hour.		After praying, they spoke for an hour, during which the brother told his story.
Dem stay for people house. Branch office for Ireland send letter to thank all the people wey dem stay with.		Everyone who had provided accommodations for the 3,500 international delegates received a letter of appreciation.
E dey do plenty things for us, one of dem be sey God dey use am ' give us food and dey make us happy. '		Among other things, by means of them, God ' satisfies people with food and fills their hearts with gladness. '
E don stay with im disciples well well and e don come like dem sotey e call dem im friend.		He had spent much time with his faithful apostles, and they were united by a special bond.
E fit still come direct. E fit put fear for our body. One book talk sey: ' No be today people begin use fear deceive person.		At times, he uses terror tactics - " one of the oldest of all forms of propaganda. "
E go gree mek the only pikin wey e get go tabernacle go work for till e die?		Would he give his own daughter to to serve at the tabernacle for the rest of her life?
E later talk sey: " I first dey fear to tell dem.		Looking back, he says: " Sure, I was scared to approach them.
E no tey, Kristina start regular pioneer, and e belle sweet am.		Before long, Kristina became a joyful regular pioneer.
E talk sey: " For everything I see hand for my life. "		Through it all, she says, " I felt the loving hand of. "
Felisa: After, my mama and my uncle wey be priest, come sey dem go carry me go join my sister dem for the convent wey dey Zaragoza because of one boy wey want mek I be im girlfriend.		Felisa: When my sisters went to the convent in Zaragoza, my mother and my uncle, who was the local priest, decided to send me there too.
For Africa, after we use some weeks take build one Kingdom Hall finish, we go comot go another one.		Here in Africa, I move from one Kingdom Hall project to another every few weeks.
For Bethzatha, Jesus cure one man wey don dey sick for 38 years.		At Bethzatha, however, Jesus cured a man who had been sick for 38 years.
For example, if to sleep with person wey no be your husband or wife dey always come your mind, no do am!		For example, if you struggle with immoral thoughts, do not give in to temptation!
For example, if you go jw.org for English, you go see one place wey dem write " Teenagers " and under am, you go see " Bible Study Activities. "		For example, " Bible Study Activities " found on the " Teenagers " section of jw.org can help you to learn practical lessons from Bible events.
From the day wey dem born the pikin, e good make papa and mama get am for mind to help am become Jesus disciple. Dem go help am to fit give im life to and baptize as im servant.		From the day of their child 's birth, parents should have the intent to make a disciple, assisting their child to become a dedicated, baptized servant of.
Help your children know wetin dem suppose do and wetin dem no suppose do. For example, tell Adam and Eve where dem go do reach.		set limits for Adam and Eve - limits that could have instilled in them a proper regard for his authority.
How our Bible student go take show sey dem want make mold dem?		How do Bible students show that they want to mold them?
I come make friend with brothers and sisters wey like to use different different way take preach. This one really help me.		Associating with those who enjoy various avenues of service has been a great help.
I no even know why. ' - JANET.		I had no idea why. " - JANET.
I no trust any church.		I did not trust any religion.
If elder for congregation dey trust imself, this one fit make am forget to pray make help am before e handle any matter for congregation.		Relying just on his own experience, an elder could begin to care for congregation matters without first approaching in prayer.
If person wey dey serve dey thief and elders for im congregation, im papa and mama, people wey e dey work for and even police no know, e mean sey e free?		It can penetrate any hiding place to uncover wrongdoing among 's people.
If the papa or mama use e as e take vex am, curse the pikin or punish am, the pikin fit come dey shame or stop to dey talk to dem.		Speaking harshly or punishing on impulse may embarrass the child or force him into silence.
If we vex because of wetin happen, e fit cause more wahala. E be like when person pour petrol for fire. ( Prov.		An angry reaction can make an unpleasant situation worse because it adds fuel to the fire.
Witness people don help many people sabi wetin sin be, how e take dey affect us and wetin we go do to comot from sin hand.		Until they talk with 's, many do not understand what sin is, how it affects us, and what we need to do to be delivered from slavery to sin.
de answer our prayer.		The gift of answered prayers.
Jesus dey always get time for people so that e fit tell dem wetin go make their faith strong.		God 's Son set aside time to build up the faith of individuals.
Lauri, my sister, dey stay for France and Ramoni dey Spain.		My sister Lauri was living in France, and Ramoni was living in Spain.
Make I talk true, that time e no sweet me as they change our assignment to circuit work, but get another thing for us. "		I have to admit that I did not really want to change my assignment and enter the circuit work, but had something else in mind. "
Make we love our brothers and sisters the way want make we love dem! - 1 John 4: 20, 21.		We must not hold back the love that commands us to display! - 1 John 4: 20, 21.
Make we see four things wey fit help you: ( 1 ) Know the kind pikin wey you get.		Consider four things that can assist you in helping your children to build faith: ( 1 ) Get to know them well.
Make you first beg for prayer.		First, approach in earnest prayer.
Many times, we dey learn how the things wey don talk sey go happen dey happen.		Often, we discuss how prophecies in the Bible have come true.
My husband don pass 80 years when e follow me go im first meeting and after that one, e no miss any meeting.		He was over 80 years old when he came to his first meeting, and after that he never missed a meeting.
Na better thing to know God name.		It 's wonderful to know his name.
Na everything we dey free to do?		Does it have limitations?
Na im make am continue to dey go serve for tabernacle and dey pray to about everything wey dey worry am. ( 1 Sam.		But she trusted that would comfort her, so she continued to worship at the tabernacle and pour out her heart in prayer.
Na wetin Adam and Eve no do be that. ( Gen.		The failure of Adam and Eve illustrates this truth.
Paul talk sey: ' Make una dey follow God example as pikin wey e love well well, make we dey show love just as Christ first love us and die for us. '		Paul exhorts us: " Become imitators of God, as beloved children, and go on walking in love, just as the Christ also loved us and gave himself for us. "
SONG: 17, 13		SONGS: 17, 13
So, when heavy breeze blow, nothing happen to im house.		So when a storm came, his house was secure.
So I enjoy the convention, and e sweet me sey I come fit understand wetin dey Bible well.		Finally, I could enjoy the program, and it was wonderful at last to understand Bible truth clearly!
So we sey na this one make allow fake religion dey control dem for some time.		We concluded that for this reason, allowed Babylon the Great to take them captive for a short time.
Some other people get good character before, but for the end no bless them.		Others who had admirable qualities failed to win God 's approval.
That time, some people among Witness de separate theirself from each other. You fit de wonder why this kind thing de happen.		You may be wondering why segregation would be practiced in congregations of 's.
The chance wey we get to pray ( Check paragraph 12 )		The blessing of prayer ( See paragraph 12 )
The place sey: " No quick think sey your pikin don trowey the truth wey you teach am.		It says: " Don 't hastily conclude that your teen has rejected your faith.
The truth be sey, e get sometimes wey things go just tire me and e be like sey make I stop. Na so because I no dey understand wetin dem dey talk for meeting, and e be like sey people no really know how to help deaf person.		To be honest, there have been times when I felt frustrated and wanted to give up because I could not understand what was being said or because it seemed as if the needs of the deaf were not understood.
This one mean sey if Jephthah die, nobody go get im property and nobody go dey to answer im name.		So there would be no one to inherit Jephthah 's name and land.
This two topic go make you get mind sey people wey don die go come back to life as Bible talk.		These articles should strengthen your belief in the resurrection.
To send message go the congregation wey the refugee brother dey, elders fit use jw.org write letter to their own branch office.		Elders can contact congregations in other lands by sending correspondence to their own branch using jw.org.
We believe sey e help am. This na because this letter wey dem dey call " Third John " na part of Bible and e dey help people ' copy good thing. '		The fact that Third John was preserved in the Bible canon and was passed on to encourage others to " imitate what is good " suggests that it did.
We dey go meeting for one brother house. The place far from our house small ( 10 miles or 16 km ).		Meetings were held in a brother and sister 's home that was ten miles ( 16 km ) away from where we lived.
We fit still dey fear because we no know how to sing.		Perhaps we are apprehensive about singing because we are unsure of how to sing.
We go respect the governments the way want.		It helps us keep a balanced view of secular authorities and motivates us in our witnessing work.
We know sey na only fit give us life wey no go end. - Luke 12: 4, 5.		We know that he alone gives everlasting life. - Luke 12: 4, 5.
We want make sure sey God word touch our mind so that our faith go strong.		We want to make sure that we allow God 's Word to reach our heart and strengthen our faith.
Wetin dey make Christian help people wey pack come their country?		What moves Christian ministers to help immigrants?
Wetin go happen if the person wey cause the quarrel no gree listen to im brother, other people and elders for congregation, wey want settle the matter?		What would be the outcome if an offender refused to listen to his brother, to, and to the congregation?
Wetin make David ready to use im mind wait for?		Why was David willing to wait patiently?
Wetin we fit dey think about pass?		What is our key interest in life?
Wetin you don tell yourself sey you go do? We dey face wahala sometimes.		So even though we face tests and trials, we are determined to show " a waiting attitude. "
Wetin you fit do to help your pikin believe wetin Bible talk?		How can you inculcate God 's Word in your children?
When Jesus ask Peter sey: " You love me pass this things? "		When Jesus asked Peter: " Do you love me more than these? "
When Jesus dey pray to im Father, e sey: ' Your word na truth. '		In prayer to his Father, Jesus said: " Your word is truth. "
When we dey build our headquarters for Warwick, the brother and im wife go join do the work for there.		They then volunteered to help with the construction of world headquarters in Warwick, New York.
When we dey forgive each other, peace go dey congregation, and we go dey do things with one mind.		But by being forgiving, we promote and preserve the unity in the congregation.
Why e good make we dey use better mind help people?		Why is there an ongoing need to show compassion?
World War II don start that time, and women dey do work to support the war.		It was now the middle of World War II, and women were directed to assist in the war effort.
Do wetin your mind tell you. " This na wetin many people today dey talk.		A popular philosophy or common adage is: Follow your heart.
Dey Treat Stranger Well, ' Oct.		Sept. " Do Not Forget Kindness to Strangers, " Oct.
Where e want make e go?		But where?
[CONTENT_REMOVED]		See paragraph 20 )
E get money, people know am well well, and dem dey respect am.		He was wealthy, well - known, and highly respected.
People wey study Bible well well talk sey the Hebrew and Greek word wey dem translate as ' my pikin ' na the same thing with to tell person better word wey go make im mind come down.		According to Bible scholars, the Hebrew and Greek words for " daughter " can be used metaphorically as an expression of " kindness and tenderness. "
Which better thing happen because of how one brother for Austria take treat one politician?		What good resulted when an Austrian Witness showed a politician honor?
Which good things fit come out when we behave well?		What benefits may come from our kind demeanor?
For example, for 36 C.E., Peter do special work when e preach to Cornelius and everybody for im house.		For example, in 36 C.E., Peter had the privilege of sharing the good news with Cornelius and his household.
God Go Bless Person Wey No Dey Tight Hand '		The Generous Person Will Be Blessed "
Mark 3: 14 ) Jesus know say the preaching work no go easy. But how they go fit succeed so that they go continue to be friends with Jesus?		Carrying out Jesus ' command was challenging, but they could succeed - and thus remain his friends. How?
For now, e good make we dey patient, and always dey ready.		Meanwhile, exercise patience, being ever watchful.
Instead, e get the strong mind wey dey give im servant wey get faith.		Rather, he had the courage that gives to his faithful servants.
All of us dey serve the same God, we dey preach the same message, and we fit even dey face the same problem.		We all love the same God, preach the same message, and face many of the same challenges.
Question From People Wey Dey Read Our Book		Questions From Readers
Who God first give freedom to choose wetin e go do, and how e use am?		Who was the first to receive God 's gift of free will, and how did he use it?
E fit no easy. But if we do everything wey we fit do to stop am, go bless us.		This may be a hard fight, but having 's blessing is worth any effort we must put forth.
We suppose receive this kind blessing?		What did we do to deserve such a wonderful blessing?
Pet. 3: 13 ) No let other people mistake make you no get this blessing.		Do not let the faults of others prevent you from obtaining such blessings.
Put God Kingdom as Number One Thing for Your Life		Seek the Kingdom, Not Things
After that one, Bible talk sey make you ' put everything wey you dey do for hand, and your plan go get head. ' - Prov.		And, as the Bible says, " commit to whatever you do, and your plans will succeed. " - Prov.
All of us dey do mistake. So e good make we know sey brothers and sisters for congregation fit no treat us well sometimes and we self fit no treat dem well.		Because all of us are imperfect and subject to sin, we realize that there is a possibility that we could either experience injustice ourselves or be the cause of it for someone else in the congregation.
And because of this one, part of e body de turn blue sometimes. When e happen like this, we de carry Daniel run go hospital.		Daniel sometimes turned blue from lack of oxygen caused by two holes in his heart, and we had to rush him to the hospital.
And e fit reach time wey only the pikin go dey drive. Papa wey get sense, go happy sey na im pikin dey drive now, no be am again.		The wise father is pleased to have his son take over and does not feel that he has to be in control.
And e go still use the things for the plane wey go help am know where e dey go. E go listen to people wey their work na to direct am.		Modern aviation equipment allows a pilot to use onboard navigation instruments and to keep in touch with air traffic controllers along the way so as to reach his planned destination.
As we dey try to near more, holy spirit go dey help us change the way we dey think.		As we work at cultivating spirituality, holy spirit will give us the power to transform our mind.
At last, dem come begin translate Bible go other language like Syriac, Gothic, and Latin.		In time, portions of the Bible were translated into other common languages, such as Syriac, Gothic, and Latin.
At last we come dey together again!		What a reunion that was!
Because of that one, I go beg the people wey dey use big truck carry wood if I fit sitdown ontop the wood wey dem carry.		As a result, I had to ask truck drivers if I could sit on top of the logs they were hauling in their big trucks.
Because sin dey our body, we fit do wetin no like sometimes.		Being imperfect, we will on occasion do things that disappoint.
But, na God wey dey talk true. ( Ps.		By contrast, is " the God of truth. "
But Jesus own no be like that. " Dem don raise Christ come life from death, and e no go die again.		In contrast, Jesus " has been raised up from the dead, [ and ] dies no more; death is no longer master over him. "
But e later talk sey: " I dey thank God through Jesus Christ wey be our Lord! "		Yet, he gratefully declared: " Thanks to God through Jesus Christ our Lord! "
But for other place, dem no dey want make their visitor worry imself bring anything.		In some areas, guests normally bring something to contribute to the occasion; in others, hosts are happier when their guests feel no such obligation.
But na once dem take dey know person wey no get love. E dey raise shoulder up, dey behave anyhow, dey tight hand and e dey jealous people.		On the other hand, a lack of love is revealed by jealousy, pride, indecent behavior, selfishness, and a resentful, unforgiving attitude.
But think am, Wetin fit make person happy?		Consider this question, What makes people happy?
Current dey make bulb light. Na so the air wey you dey breath dey give your voice power when you dey talk or sing.		Much as electricity powers a light bulb, breathing energizes your voice when you speak or sing.
Dem no go fear again sey their enemy go stop the work.		They did not have to worry about interference from their enemies.
Dem see how take protect dem reach there.		They had already seen 's saving hand in their behalf throughout their long trip homeward.
E dey make person think of wetin e fit do wey go favor the other person.		It can include affection and warmth.
E dey really help me well well when I dey teach people Bible, especially when I dey tell dem about resurrection.		I find it especially beneficial to teach others, even sharing the resurrection hope with them.
E fit be sey you be person wey dey happy when you just see person wey you no know before.		On the other hand, you may be excited to meet new people for the first few weeks.
E fit use im holy spirit take direct us.		He may guide us by means of holy spirit.
E no ever get sin, e strong and get power wey we no fit compare with any other man.		He had strength and physical power that would make any ' macho man ' pale in comparison.
E really take care of Elisha well well. So because of this one, God bless im and im husband with pikin.		Through the prophet, God rewarded this childless woman and her elderly husband with a son.
E talk sey: " I dey try make I no dey think bad thing.		I am fighting to control improper thoughts.
Even with that one, David no carry wetin people do am for mind.		Still, that friend of God did not allow resentment to gnaw away at him.
FOR Bible, don give us different different law wey dey tell us wetin want make we do.		THROUGH his written Word, has given us a number of specific commands.
For Bible to fit change our life, we must read am everytime. Make we dey try read am everyday.		If God 's Word is to have an effect on us, we need to read it regularly - daily if possible.
For example, Cain kill im brother Abel because of jealousy.		For instance, Cain became jealous of his brother Abel and killed him.
For example, dem go talk sey dem go do something, but to do am na wahala. Dem no go dey do well for school or work.		That lack may result in procrastination and underperformance in school or at work.
For many years, brothers dey choose if na Bible dem want buy, or food wey their family go chop. But, because of the money wey other brothers dey contribute, everything dey ' balance. ' organization don use wetin we contribute well.		Now, by means of the contributions of many and " an equalizing " of finances, 's organization has sponsored the translation and distribution of Bibles to each member of the family as well as to spiritually hungry Bible students.
For some place, na normal thing for visitor to bring something when e dey come.		In some places, hosts honor guests with the finest they have to offer, letting family take second place; in others, everyone shares alike.
For the topic before this one, we talk about wetin person wey kill somebody by mistake need to do, and we learn from that arrangement.		The preceding article outlined lessons learned from the steps taken by the fugitive.
Gaius don first treat some visitors well before, na im make some brothers tell John about the love wey Gaius show dem and the kind faith wey e get. - 3 John 3, 6.		It was evident that Gaius had already done this for his previous guests, since they had brought John a report of their host 's love and faith. - 3 John 3, 6.
Get am for mind sey you and other people dey make mistake, and no be everything person dey fit do. - Phil.		Be reasonable with yourself and others. - Phil.
How papa and mama fit show sey na dey mold dem?		How can Christian parents show that is their Potter?
I go be person wey go ' really help ' brothers and sisters for the congregation? - Col.		Will I be " a source of great comfort " to the congregation? - Col.
I go make you strong, yes, I go help you, I go really hold you with my right hand wey good. " ( Isa.		I will fortify you, yes, I will help you, I will really hold on to you with my right hand of righteousness. "
I go use better mind wait for the God wey dey save me.		I will show a waiting attitude [ " I will wait patiently, " ftn. ] for the God of my salvation.
If husband love im wife and children, this one fit make im family happy as dem dey serve. And e fit make dem get the life wey no go end wey promise.		A husband who loves his wife and children is more likely to have a family that happily serves and wins the prize of life.
If to sey the brother and sister vex for the woman, you think sey e for write this letter?		Would the householder have written that if the publishers had shown even a hint of anger?
If we want really thank God for im favor, which kind sin we go still comot hand from?		God 's undeserved kindness should move us to what extent?
If you gree, then mek you dey do everything wey you fit do to dey for meeting, even when e no easy for you.		If so, keep doing all you can to be with your brothers at the meetings, even when it is difficult.
In short, e promise us say we too go get the joy wey e get.		In fact, he assured us that his joy will become ours.
Instead, dem dey look other people as sinner wey no get hope.		Unlike the just and merciful God they claimed to worship, the Pharisees labeled their fellow men sinners, condemning them as hopeless.
make human being to fit do many things.		created humans with remarkable abilities.
no dey only see wetin all im servant dey do. E still dey see wetin we dey do one by one.		s concern extends beyond the welfare of his people as a whole.
send prophet Isaiah go tell Im people sey E dey like am when Im servant dey put hand for Im work. ( Isa.		invited the prophet Isaiah to speak on His behalf, revealing His pleasure in having faithful humans take part in the outworking of His purpose. Isaiah willingly accepted that invitation.
Jesus show us good example to de obey.		Simply put, Jesus tells us, ' Be obedient to me. '
MARIA papa and mama dey look as their pikin wey dey nine years stand up. Maria dey among people wey want baptize.		AS HER Christian parents looked on, a young girl, whom we will call Maria, stood up with the other baptism candidates.
Make wuna leg ready to tell people the good news ( Check paragraph 9 - 11 )		Feet shod in readiness ( See paragraphs 9 - 11 )
Make you sofri help am think about the matter.		Patiently help him to reason on the matter.
Many of the song wey dey our new songbook be like prayer.		Many of the songs from " Sing Out Joyfully " to are in the form of a prayer.
Na work dey give me joy pass, or na other things? '		Does most of my joy come from engaging in mundane activities or in spiritual activities? '
Na for house?		At home?
Na im be our Papa, our God, and our Friend! - Ps.		He is our Father, God, and Friend! - Ps.
Na the favor wey God show us make am forgive our sin and na im go still make am continue to forgive our sin.		By means of God 's undeserved kindness, our sins have been forgiven and can continue to be forgiven.
Na wetin one brother wey don be elder for many years dey do.		Consider what one longtime elder has been doing.
Now l de enjoy to tell other young people the good news. "		Now I 'm happy to witness to my peers. "
ONE Russia police ( KGB officer ) * come dey shout for me sey: " You be wicked papa.		YOU are such a cruel father, " scolded the KGB officer.
One of dem na one woman wey im name na Aksamai Sultanalieva. This woman husband dey work for government office.		One of her clients was a woman named Aksamai Sultanalieva, who was married to an official of the public prosecutor 's office.
Paul let us know sey, even person wey dey always encourage people still need who go encourage am.		Paul showed that even one who has the responsibility of encouraging others needs to be built up himself.
People wey God choose to go heaven go get ' the righteous crown wey the Lord and our righteous judge, go give as prize that day. '		Spirit - anointed Christians are sustained by the prospect of receiving " the crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous judge, will give. as a reward in that day. "
People wey hate partial, dey wait for the time wey go comot Satan and im wicked world wey don make many people suffer for wetin dem no do.		Lovers of justice long for the day when will completely erase all the injustice inflicted on humans by Satan and his wicked system.
Plenty gain dey when we dey show love.		When we show love, the benefits are far - reaching.
Plenty times, Jesus tell e disciples say: " Make wuna always dey ready. "		Jesus repeatedly exhorted his disciples: " Keep on the watch. "
Robert come see sey e no dey hard im wife to answer the question. But shame dey always catch Robert because e no dey fit answer the question.		His wife, a spiritually strong person, had no problem answering the questions, but Robert found himself constantly embarrassed, not knowing what to say.
Russell and other passengers dey one boat wey dey go Belfast.		For one man in their midst, Charles T.
SOMETIMES, when Jesus want talk to some women, e dey call dem " woman. "		That is the way Jesus sometimes addressed individuals of the opposite sex.
So, e good make we still help other people learn this truth dem.		We, in turn, want to help sincere people to become familiar with these vital teachings.
Some of the place wey we dey show dem for their Portuguese Bible na Revelation 21: 3, 4 or Psalm 37: 10, 11, 29.		When we showed them scriptures from their Portuguese Bible, such as Revelation 21: 3, 4 or Psalm 37: 10, 11, 29, they paid attention and sometimes even shed tears. "
Special full - time servant promise ( Check paragraph 19 )		Special full - time service vow ( See paragraph 19 )
The better prayer wey e take praise and thank dey for Bible.		Her touching prayer is preserved in the Bible.
The only program wey we get for phone and small computer na JW Language, JW Library, and JW Library Sign Language.		And we have only three official apps for mobile devices - JW Language, JW Library, and JW Library Sign Language.
The truth be sey, dey handle us one one.		Indeed, he deals with us as individuals, taking into account our particular weaknesses, limitations, and level of spiritual growth.
The truth be sey ready to forgive anybody wey repent from im sin. But e want make we try well well so that we no go continue to do bad.		But while is willing to forgive repentant sinners, he expects us to put up a strong fight against our sinful tendencies.
The way e take love dem touch dem well well.		His love made a lasting impression on them.
This character na gift from God.		Patience is a gift from God, and being patient is a key way to show our love for him.
This one really help me understand Bible well well.		That really deepened my appreciation for the truth.
This things wey we dey try do, no be to follow Moses law or to do other things wey we feel sey go make like us.		We have not done that by striving to keep the Mosaic Law or to earn 's approval by other works.
To respect and praise and Jesus no be matter of ' if you like. '		Honoring and Christ is not optional.
We for no dey happy and we for tire for our life if to sey God organization no dey direct us.		Living without the help of God 's organization and his standards would result in unhappiness and misery.
Wetin happen fit surprise you. E don pass 50 years wey Elisha dey do prophet work.		He had served for over 50 years as a prophet, and then he " became ill with the sickness from which he eventually died. "
Wetin that one teach us?		Do you see a lesson for us?
What of sickness?		What about sickness?
When Bible sey make the ' love wey we get no be for mouth, ' wetin e mean?		What is " love free from hypocrisy "?
When dem talk bad things about us, we dey use better word answer dem. ' - 1 Cor.		Paul wrote: " When insulted, we bless; when persecuted, we patiently endure; when slandered, we answer mildly. " - 1 Cor.
Which place your mind dey? Na for the problems of this world, or the Kingdom of God?		Is your focus on the world 's problems or on God 's Kingdom?
Why e hard Israel people to choose who dem go serve?		Why might it have been so difficult for those Israelites to make a wise decision?
Why e no good make we lie?		Why will we avoid telling lies?
Why we dey sure sey our problem dey pain Jesus?		Why can we be confident of Jesus ' sympathy today?
Make una still dey patient. ' - JAS.		You too exercise patience. " - JAS.
[CONTENT_REMOVED]		See paragraphs 18, 19 )
But Paul correct Peter, and e accept - am. Why we talk say e accept - am?		In that case, Paul gave Peter a fitting reproof, which he evidently accepted.
How e take help dem?		What have been the results?
If because of love you invite person wey no think sey you go invite am, e fit make two of una become friend.		If extended with love, an unexpected invitation can be the start of a completely changed relationship.
The truth be sey, if we love God, we go fit do wetin e talk, we fit bear anything, and we go hate wetin bad.		Indeed, having deep love for God helps us to obey 's commandments, to endure, and to hate what is bad.
Which kind character Daniel get?		What fine qualities did Daniel display?
But wetin don dey happen because of this one?		What have been the results of such struggles?
Wetin go help us be like apostle Paul?		What will help us to share Paul 's attitude toward the ministry?
Wetin be the main thing wey we suppose put for mind?		What big issue faces all mankind?
Because of sin wey dey our body, we dey make the same mistake everytime.		Being imperfect, we make the same mistakes again and again.
Matt. 5: 3 ) The only thing wey animal know na to chop, drink water, and born pikin.		He created humans to find happiness by knowing him and by serving him faithfully.
value life well well, so e no like am if person ' kill person wey im hand clean. '		loves life, and he hates murderous " hands that shed innocent blood. "
Give Men Wey You Fit Trust '		These Things Entrust to Faithful Men "
God no tight hand at all! E give Adam and Eve many things so that dem fit enjoy life.		He generously gave Adam and Eve a variety of precious gifts that enabled them to enjoy life.
Na so dey do things.		That is 's way of handling matters.
After, Lucy come talk sey: " The brothers use Bible advice me. Their advice help me learn sey make I no dey too think about wetin people dey talk about me but make I dey think about. "		She relates: " Their Scriptural advice helped me to maintain the right viewpoint of others ' opinions and to focus on who matters most -. "
After, they call me enter U.S.		Later, I was drafted into the U.S.
After Asa win the fight, prophet Azariah tell im and im people sey: ' But una, make una strong and make una no let una hand weak, because dem go pay una for una work. ' ( 2 Chron. 15: 7, ftn. )		Following Asa 's stunning victory, the prophet Azariah encouraged him and his people with the words: " But you, be strong and do not let your hands drop, for your activity will be rewarded. "
Around the year 1450, wetin give correct Christians hope sey dem go fit comot from fake religion hand?		In the mid - 15th century, what factors contributed to a slight loosening of false religion 's grip on the people?
As we de grow to be mature Christian, why our love for the things wey they fit guide us for Bible go de grow?		As we progress spiritually toward maturity, why do principles become more important to us?
Because our children don choose to serve, na that one dem dey think about, no be things for this world. "		Having and achieving spiritual goals helps our children to counteract pressures from Satan 's system and to focus on what is real -. "
Because we get many things wey we dey do, we need to find time relax and rest well.		We need some time to relax and find refreshment from our hard work and busy schedules.
Before person wey no dey do oversabi go gree do another work, e go first know wetin dem want make e do.		Before accepting a new assignment, a modest person will first find out what will be required of him.
Bible don help us know sey na only go fit rule us.		The Bible does more than establish 's right to rule.
But Bible talk sey: ' Wetin person wey get sense talk dey make person well. '		Nevertheless, the Bible states that " the tongue of the wise is a healing. "
But e fit be sey, people wey do wetin bad well well no gree change so that go forgive dem.		On the other hand, sometimes those who have been guilty of serious sins reject 's mercy and are unrepentant.
But if we want make bless us, make we first support true worship.		But to enjoy divine favor, we must first and foremost support true worship and stick to it.
But make God favor no come make person dey think sey: ' E no matter if I sin.		Still, it would be a serious mistake to presume on God 's undeserved kindness, such as by thinking: ' Even if I do something wrong - something that God views as sin - I do not have to worry about it.
But many of dem no dey understand wetin dem dey hear.		It is doubtful, though, that they would have understood what they heard.
But you fit dey do things wey go make dem see sey e good to follow.		Instead, let them see in you the benefits of following 's ways.
Circuit overseer tell am sey: " No be by mistake I take come here.		The circuit overseer told him: " I am not here by coincidence.
DEM born me for 1923 for one town wey dem dey call Hemsworth, for Yorkshire wey dey England.		I WAS born in 1923 in Hemsworth, a town in Yorkshire, England.
Dem dey really make us strong. "		They are a real source of encouragement. "
Dem go learn how to take care of ' God sheep. ' - 1 Pet.		This procedure contributes to the training of future shepherds of " the flock of God. " - 1 Pet.
Dem promise sey dem go love, care for and respect each other, and sey dem go do this one as husband and wife all their life because na wetin want from people wey marry.		They usually promise that they will love, cherish, and respect each other and that they will do so " for as long as [ they ] both shall live together on earth according to God 's marital arrangement. "
E de make us remain as one people wey nothing fit divide! - Col.		It unites us with an unbreakable bond. - Col.
E dey 19 years when e start to pioneer. E talk sey: " I like full - time service because I dey see am as way to show sey I love am. When I first start, I no even get one Bible student.		Recently, a brother named Timothy who started pioneering as a teenager said: " I like serving full - time because it 's the way I express my love for him.
E dey sweet us to see as many people dey come serve		The increase in the number of brings us constant joy
E fit be sey we no dey full - time service, and we no fit go preach for where Witness no too many.		Using material assets to advance Kingdom interests shows " practical wisdom " in another way.
E good to get am for mind sey, people wey come from different place get how dem dey do things.		How can respecting local customs contribute to our being good guests?
E let Law tell am wetin e go dey do.		He let guide his choices in life.
E no dey surprise you as pikin take dey form for belle, how one small seed dey turn to big tree wey dey produce plenty fruit or how star take dey make the sky fine for night?		Who does not marvel at the intricacies of the human cell, the delicateness of a newborn baby, or the splendor of a gorgeous sunset?
E no dey tey, before you know, young person don grow finish.		Young people quickly progress to adulthood.
E no easy for Jephthah to do wetin e promise. But e be like sey na im pikin e hard for pass. Even with this one, e ready to do wetin im papa promise.		However hard this was on Jephthah, it may have been harder still on his daughter, who willingly complied with her father 's decision.
E no go let wicked thing spread. But e go quick comot am.		He will see to it that it is contained and speedily removed.
E no tey after Abraham and Lot get this problem, come promise Abraham wetin pass the thing wey e lose.		Immediately after this incident with Lot, promised Abraham great blessings.
E tell people sey we dey find cow but na preach we want preach. Na true sey we dey ask about cow, but na sheep we dey find.		At that time, a newspaper wrote about the that they ask about cows but they are looking for sheep!
Even though sey John no call Diotrephes lie lie teacher, Diotrephes no dey listen to wetin apostle John talk.		Although John never called him a false teacher, Diotrephes was resisting the apostle 's authority.
FOR this last days wey go soon end, wicked people dey " grow like grass. " ( Ps.		AS THE last days near their end, the wicked continue to " sprout like weeds. "
For 1939, e reach 6,000 Witness wey dem put for prison [ concentration camp ]. "		By 1939 there were 6,000 of them in the [ concentration camps ]. "
For example, make one strong force wey dem dey call gravity. Na gravity dey hold everything wey dey sky and earth for where dem dey.		Thus, the law of gravity holds the atmosphere close to the earth, regulates tides and oceans, and contributes to the physical order essential to life on earth.
For the Ten Commandment, warn im people sey make dem no worship any other god apart from am and make dem no get any other thing wey dem dey serve. ( Deut.		In the Ten Commandments, made clear that his people must have no other gods besides him and that they must not practice any form of idolatry.
For this topic, we go talk about how this three things fit make our light shine. - Read Matthew 5: 14 - 16.		In this article, we will discuss how that is accomplished. - Read Matthew 5: 14 - 16.
For this verse, the Greek word wey dem translate as ' wetin dey make person believe ' dey talk about ' wetin dey make person get reason ' sey wetin e no dey see dey real. This one mean sey we believe sey God, Jesus Christ, angels and God Kingdom wey dey heaven dey real. ( Heb.		In this context, the Greek word translated " evident demonstration " refers to " convincing evidence " of an invisible reality, such as the existence of God, Jesus Christ, the angels, and the activities of the heavenly Kingdom.
For where! E good make person know where e suppose do reach so that all of us go really enjoy this freedom wey God give us.		Limits are necessary in order for all to enjoy the blessings of true freedom.
God want make everybody get life wey no go end.		God wants no one to be destroyed.
How we take know? One book sey dem go want know the things wey make the person dirty; how the dirty fit reach another person; which container fit still dey clean or fit dirty because of the person; and how and wetin dem go use to clean all of dem.		One source says that each cause for impurity would be subjected " to questioning concerning the circumstances in which it may be contracted, how and to what extent it may be transmitted to others, the utensils and objects capable and incapable of becoming unclean, and finally, the means and rituals required for purification. "
How you go take show sey you dey pity for people?		In what circumstances can you exercise the godly quality of compassion?
I be 91 years now but I still dey remember wetin my sister talk, like sey na yesterday.		I am now 91 years old, and I still remember them clearly.
If e get something for Bible wey your pikin no too believe, make you no vex for am or force am to believe am.		If a child is unsure about some teaching, try not to react too strongly or to respond as if you were on the defensive.
If we dey read this things, e go make us sabi the truth wey dey Bible more.		When we read this information, we deepen our appreciation for familiar truths.
If we get work wey we dey do for, make we self value am.		If we have privileges of service, we likewise should value them.
If we no dey careful, we fit leave and im people.		If we are not careful, we could detach ourselves from and his people.
If we no want make the problem wey we get with our brothers and sisters make us miss wetin God promise, wetin we go do?		How can we prevent resentment from depriving us of the prize?
If you dey read any part for Bible, e good make you stop small, come ask yourself this kind question: ' Wetin this place dey tell me about the kind person wey be?		As you read a Bible passage, take time to pause and ask yourself such questions as these: ' What does this tell me about?
Im name na Walter Bright. This brother graduate from class 30 of Gilead School.		Before long, I met Walter Bright, a missionary who had graduated from the 30th class.
people for apostle time still show us better example. Dem use song take praise God together.		First - century Christians set a pattern of praising God together in song.
Jesus tell them wetin go help them.		They had to " go and keep bearing fruit. "
Like Joseph, wetin we go do if dem no treat us well for congregation?		Why should we draw even closer to if we experience injustice in the congregation?
Like Martha, you get better reason to talk sey, ' I know sey my person wey don die go come life again. '		Happily, like Martha, you have good reason to say, ' I know that my loved one will rise in the resurrection. '
Make una happy and make belle sweet una, because una get plenty gain for heaven. Before una time, na so dem take suffer the prophet dem. '		Rejoice and be overjoyed, since your reward is great in the heavens, for in that way they persecuted the prophets prior to you. "
Make we talk about the example of one sister wey im name na Sakura. * E come from Japan.		Consider what happened to Sakura * from Japan.
Matthew chapter 10 tell us wetin and wetin Jesus tell im 12 apostle to do.		In Matthew chapter 10, we find instructions that Jesus gave to his 12 apostles.
Na wetin happen to brother Federico be that.		This is what a brother named Federico experienced.
No forget sey send im Son to die for everybody, and your pikin dey among dem.		Never forget that he gave his Son for all, including your child.
No matter the problem, make we no forget wetin David talk. E sey: ' Put everything wey you want do for hand, trust am, and e go stand for you. ' - Ps.		Whatever the problem may be, we do well to heed the words of the psalmist who said: " Commit your way to; rely on him, and he will act in your behalf. " - Ps.
Now, I be regular pioneer for one sign - language congregation, and I de learn how to help different - different kind of people. "		Now I am serving as a regular pioneer in a sign - language congregation, and I am learning to reach out to all kinds of people. "
ONE thing make human being better pass animal. Wetin be that one?		ONE thing that makes humans superior to animals is the fact that humans have been endowed with a conscience.
One Chinese person wey get land even tell us sey: " Chinese people no dey sell.		No one did; one owner even told us: " Chinese do not sell.
One brother for Germany talk sey e like how all the book for Bible take agree, all of dem talk about one topic - God Kingdom.		A brother in Germany wrote: " The Kingdom theme runs through the Bible like a golden thread.
One day, I come vex tell dem sey we no go do family study that day.		Once, in desperation, I told them to go to their rooms and that we would not have the study.
One thing wey you fit do first, na to learn one greeting for the language wey this people de speak.		For a start, why not learn a greeting in the languages commonly spoken by newcomers in your area?
Only that one reach to make Gaius believe sey na apostle John write am.		That was enough for his beloved spiritual child Gaius to recognize him as the apostle John.
Our belle sweet us sey this world wey Satan dey control no dey control us again, and we no dey fear to die. Why? Because Jesus die for us! - Heb.		Thanks to Christ 's sacrifice, we are free from enslavement to this world under Satan 's control, and we no longer live in fear of death. - Heb.
Our meeting still dey help us if we dey put mind for all the things wey brothers and sisters dey talk for meeting and if we dey answer question. As we dey think about wetin we dey learn na so we go dey sabi how dey think.		Meditating on what is being taught will help us to discern more about 's thinking and to make his thoughts our own.
Paul take time teach Timothy the ' different different way e take dey teach, like Jesus. '		Paul had taken time to teach Timothy his " methods in connection with Christ. "
Paul talk sey na big thing do for us and na im favor make am do am. E sey: ' Now wey dem don call us [ people wey go follow Christ rule ] better people because of faith, make we enjoy peace with God because of our Lord Jesus Christ, wey because of am we don get chance to enter this favor wey we stand for inside now because of faith. ' ( Rom.		Paul links this privilege to 's undeserved kindness, stating: " Now that we [ Christ 's anointed brothers ] have been declared righteous as a result of faith, let us enjoy peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we also have obtained access by faith into this undeserved kindness in which we now stand. "
Paul understand wetin tell am.		Paul got the point.
People Wey Dey Sell for Jerusalem Temple Na ' Thief '? June		No Road Too Rough or Too Long " ( Australia ), Feb.
People wey dey write news don go stand with their camera for where train dey stop.		The city 's reporters have moved on to this week 's event.
Person wey dey always look things wey dey show naked people dey cause trouble for imself, because e go dey hungry am to sleep with person.		Those who habitually view pornography nurture " uncontrolled sexual passion, " which may result in their becoming addicted to sex.
Revelation chapter 4 come talk something wey suppose make us praise, the Person wey no dey die.		We note in chapter 4 of the same Bible book one reason why deserves to be honored.
Show Sey You Get Faith for Wetin Don Promise, Oct.		Spread the Good News of Undeserved Kindness, July
So we dey sure sey ' when we beg am to help us, ' e go help us. - Ps.		Therefore, we can be sure that he hears our " pleas for help " and responds to them. - Ps.
Some government worker dey collect money from people before dem do their work; like the one wey dey register marriage, wey dey collect tax and wey dey give people paper to build house.		Tips are thus demanded by officials who legalize marriages, who accept legitimate income tax payments, who issue building permits, and so on.
Something like this happen to one farmworker wey dem sey e no bring the complete amount of wetin e suppose harvest.		The record of a plea in such a case dated to the seventh century B.C.E.
Take time explain where you read, use example, and teach the brothers how to use wetin dey the verse for their life		Take time to explain, illustrate, and apply verses that you read
Tell make e help you put mind for the better character wey your brother get.		Ask God to help you focus on your brother 's positive qualities.
The first thing wey we go do na to beg God for im spirit.		First, ask God for his spirit, which produces love.
The one wey better pass na when we help dem enjoy their new congregation.		More important, you can help them to become fully involved in their new congregation.
The sister still talk sey: " Later, Tessie come baptize come even be regular pioneer, even when im pikin dem still small. "		The sister added: " In time, Tessie was baptized and later served as a regular pioneer, even while she still had young children. "
This kind mind go make dem know sey you no dey take play at all.		Such a stand may actually help your relatives to see that applying Bible truth is a life - and - death matter.
This one come make im mind come down.		That, in turn, mitigated some of her distress.
This one come make some doctor carry injection dey follow am go everywhere for the hospital. Dem want chuk am injection, so that e go born the pikin when time never reach to born am.		In response, some doctors followed her everywhere in the hospital with a syringe, trying to inject her and induce a premature birth.
This preaching wey we arrange, make brothers put body for the work pass before.		The special activity had a motivating effect on the local brothers.
This thing wey dem do help the brothers fit continue to preach.		These provisions gave the brothers the strength to carry on the preaching work.
True true, na our Father, and e love us. E dey help us when we dey face problem.		is indeed a loving Father, and he comforts us when we face difficulties.
We fit talk sey this better character be like strong strong pillar wey dey hold house.		These might be likened to the pillars of a house that keep it standing.
We sing one of our song, and listen to the talk for people wey want baptize.		We sang a Kingdom song and listened to the baptism talk.
We still dey wait for the time wey God go give people life wey no go end, whether na for the ' new heaven ' or for the ' new earth. '		We also long for the promised reward of everlasting life, either as part of God 's " new heavens " or as part of his " new earth. "
Wetin I go do now?		What would I do?
Wetin fit happen if we dey praise and respect people?		What are some benefits of showing honor to those in positions of authority?
Wetin go help us be like soft clay for hand?		What can help us to be like soft clay in 's hands?
Wetin we fit do to remove partial inside our heart?		How can we uproot prejudice from our heart?
What if our papa and mama wey don old dey sick, who go help dem?		What if our aging parents need our help?
When papa and mama no leave and im organization, dem go get better sense wey dem fit use help their family.		By not isolating themselves from and his organization, they gain practical wisdom and use it to build up their family.
When people for religion de support different side for politics, e de easy make people begin get problem and de fight.		When religion is mixed with politics, violence can easily erupt.
Which question we fit ask about resurrection?		What question about the resurrection might arise?
Why? Because no dey with dem as e dey with us.		No other people are preaching the truth globally, for others do not have guiding them as does his united congregation today.
Why e good make we try to dey wear cloth wey good for eye?		Why is it worth making the effort to be appropriately dressed?
Why we want talk about the four king wey rule Judah?		Why will we consider the examples of four kings of Judah?
Why you ready to follow Jesus, our Leader?		Why are you determined to follow our Leader, Jesus?
You know how many silver coins I don collect? "		Do you know how many silver coins I have collected? "
The people wey their God na go happy! " - PS.		Happy is the people whose God is! " - PS.
Wetin e mean for God spirit to dey direct person?		What does it mean to be a spiritual person?
Brook talk join wetin Hans talk, e sey: " want make we try another road. "		Adds Brook, " wanted us to knock on another door. "
[CONTENT_REMOVED]		See paragraph 16 )
Which question dem fit come our mind?		What questions arise?
If no love us, e no go give us Bible or even protect am.		And why did he guarantee that it would survive?
The book talk sey I go see my friend again for Paradise.		It says that I will once again see my friend in Paradise.
Wetin Satan dey do wey fit make our hand weak?		How does Satan try to cause us to let our hands drop down?
Cor. 7: 39 ) Na im make Jesus talk sey, ' wetin God don join together, make nobody separate am, ' whether na the husband, wife, or any other person.		Therefore, " to use Jesus ' words, " what God has yoked together, let no man put apart " - neither the husband nor the wife nor anyone else.
What if na only us dey serve for our family and our family people no dey behave well? We dey beg make e help us continue to behave like Christian?		If we live in a divided household, do we ask for his help to maintain the Christian personality even when no one else around us is making such an effort?
Shan wey we talk about before, sey: ' I remember the brothers and sisters wey help me.		I well remember the brothers who took me under their wing, " recalls Shan, quoted earlier.
Many example for Bible show the bad thing wey fit happen if person follow im mind.		And Bible accounts show the sad consequences of following one 's heart.
Think about wetin Noah and im family do.		They lived in a violent and immoral world.
Wetin Noah no fit do?		What could Noah not do?
And how this one take affect the hope wey you get sey when the time reach, people wey don die go come life again?		And how does that relate to what you can expect regarding a future resurrection?
And how we fit take settle matter with our brother or sister?		How, then, can we deal with hurt feelings and gain our brother?
And some people don stop to believe sey God dey, because of the bad bad things wey dey happen for religion.		And some stop believing in God because they are disappointed with religion.
And when we dey give am the things wey e give us, e dey show sey we love am. E still dey show sey we value wetin e don do for us.		Giving back to him shows that we love him and appreciate all that he has done in our behalf.
Apart from that one, you fit even help other people come serve.		Moreover, you will undoubtedly laud our heavenly Father as did David, who sang: " I will praise at all times; his praise will be on my lips constantly.
Because Peter use Bible, the plenty people wey listen to am believe sey Jesus na " Lord and Christ. "		Peter 's reasoning in line with the Scriptures helped to convince the large crowd that Jesus was " both Lord and Christ. "
Before Memorial day, and especially Memorial night, make we settle down think about wetin the bread and wine mean.		A second way we can promote unity is by reflecting on the meaning of the emblems used at the Memorial.
Beg make e use holy spirit give you more power, the way warm breeze dey give eagle more power to fit fly.		Beg to give you a " lift " by means of " the helper, the holy spirit. "
But, if papa and mama no dey understand the language of the new place wey dem dey stay, dem fit tell person to help dem so that dem go fit reach their children heart.		Still, parents who do not know the local language may need help to reach their children 's heart.
But if you see one man wey different from other people wey go come my burial, talk to am. Abeg, still read this small blue book [ e dey talk about one book wey we take dey study Bible, wey dem give am tey tey, the name na " The Truth That Leads to Eternal Life " ].		But if you see a man at my funeral who does not seem to belong there, talk to him, and please read this little blue book [ referring to the Bible study aid " The Truth That Leads to Eternal Life " that he had received years before ].
But many people no know why God make human being. For Bible, apostle Paul show how we take different from this people.		On the other hand, the majority of mankind have no clear concept of life 's purpose.
But no be only strong strong pillar house need. We still need to dey clean and repair am every time so that the house no go fall.		But besides having strong pillars, a house needs maintenance, which must be done regularly; otherwise, deterioration could set in.
But sometimes, some of dem no even know wetin dem want use their life do for.		Occasionally, however, there are youths who do not seem to have an answer.
But you get friend wey be mechanic for the next village and you know sey, if you try push the motor reach there, the mechanic go repair am.		But you know that if you keep traveling toward the end of the tunnel, you will again see light.
Dem come beg sey: ' Make you no carry our sin for mind forever.		Then they would plead: " Do not remember our error forever.
Dem dey call the dress barong Tagalog and na people wey come from Filipino dey wear am. This one sweet the brothers.		The local brothers were pleased to see Brother Franz wearing the barong Tagalog, traditional Filipino attire, when giving the public talk.
Dem no take time learn about or trust am.		They had not built a foundation of accurate knowledge or godly wisdom; nor did they trust in.
Dem sing song to when dem dey dedicate the temple. Bible tell us sey: ' People dey blow trumpet and people dey sing.		At the inauguration of the temple, music and singing played a prominent role.
Dem start to dey search everywhere, dem dey find our book dem.		They searched everywhere, even in the cows ' feed.
E bad for Christian to use wetin dem dey call IUD?		One Act of Christian Kindness, Oct.
E go better make dem sofri call the pikin and talk to am, tell am why want make e dey hear word and wetin e go gain if e dey hear word.		Perhaps in private, they can calmly and lovingly reason with a child, explaining that expects him to honor his parents for his everlasting benefit.
E later be Witness and e come dey pioneer.		Later, he came into the truth and entered the full - time service.
E talk sey: " My left leg take three - and - a - half inches ( 9 cm ) short pass my right leg.		She explains: " My left leg is about three - and - a - half inches ( 9 cm ) shorter than my right leg.
E want make I talk wetin dey my mind no be just wetin im or my mama talk.		He wants me to answer in my own words and not simply repeat his or Mum 's words.
Even though say I sabi win argument, e still no de make me happy.		Although I was good at winning arguments, I still ended up feeling frustrated.
Everybody dey enjoy from their work.		This brings benefits to all.
For Hebrew Scriptures, no too talk about Satan and the things wey Satan de do. E fit be say na because no want make people too take Satan as important.		Apparently, did not want to give Satan undue prominence by devoting large portions of the Hebrew Scriptures to discussing him and his activity.
For example, we fit sey we want travel go far place with motor.		For example, we may exercise our freedom of choice to drive to a distant city.
For example, we go fit bear serious problem, with the hope sey things go better. ( Col. 1: 11; Jas.		For example, it is closely connected with endurance, which enables us to put up with difficult circumstances while maintaining a positive attitude.
Friendship with Jesus na wonderful gift from!		What a precious gift to receive - friendship with Jesus!
From 1944, dem come dey bomb Kent with many many jet plane wey bomb full inside.		Starting in 1944, over a thousand unmanned jet planes packed with explosives fell on Kent.
Government and people wey dey lead for Church come make people dey join fake Christian.		Church and State promoted apostate Christianity and tried to drown out the voice of wheatlike Christians.
How 2 Timothy 1: 7 take help us know who dey give us strong mind?		How does 2 Timothy 1: 7 help us to identify the fundamental source of courage?
How Noah take show sey e put mind for wetin e fit do?		How did Noah focus on what he could do?
I sitdown for sand sand and ashes to show sey I regret wetin I talk. " - Job 42: 2, 6.		I repent in dust and ashes. " - Job 42: 2, 6.
If we choose well, e go make us fit near well well but if we no choose well, e go make us be enemy.		A good decision will strengthen our relationship with God, whereas a bad one may damage it.
If we do all this things, we go see sey wetin Psalm 64: 10 talk na true. That place talk sey: " Belle go sweet good people well well because of.		In all such ways, we can share in the truth of Psalm 64: 10, which says: " The righteous one will rejoice in and take refuge in him. "
If we want make people wey come from another place dey happy sey dem dey our congregation, make we ask ourself, ' If I go another place, how I go want make dem treat me? ' ( Matt.		To help others feel at home in the congregation, honestly ask yourself, ' If I were in a foreign country, how would I want to be treated? '
If you want know other things wey go make you get more joy, check the box " Other Things Wey Go Help You Get More Joy. "		For additional ways to enhance your joy, see the box " Other Ways to Increase Joy. "
Witness people dey preach the good news about God Kingdom for everywhere for this world		s are filling the earth with the good news of the Kingdom
promise sey e go protect im people, take care of dem, and teach dem.		has promised to care for, protect, and instruct the Christian congregation.
want make we train im servant dem well, so that dem fit work for am.		wants his modern - day servants to be well - trained for their theocratic assignments.
Jesus show sey e dey carry body down when e wash im disciples leg.		Jesus set the pattern in honoring others by performing the lowliest of tasks.
Make we follow Paul example, make we no fear, make we talk true, and talk wetin go make dem believe us.		As Paul was, we should try to be calm, sincere, and convincing.
Na ' the correct thing ' wey dey God Word dey direct the elders wey dey organization. ( 1 Tim. 6: 3; ftn. )		These loyal shepherds within God 's organization are guided by " wholesome, " or " healthful; beneficial, " instruction found in God 's own Book.
Na im make e tell the oga of the people wey dey give Pharaoh wine sey make e tell Pharaoh about wetin happen.		Joseph also stated that he was not guilty of the crime for which he was imprisoned. On that basis, he asked the cupbearer to mention him to Pharaoh.
Na so Satan self dey do.		Taylor.
Na so because God talk sey na man be head of the woman. ( 1 Cor.		God authorizes him to exercise headship over his wife.
Na we go choose.		That is our choice.
Our car dey for front of our house!		There was our car, parked in front of the house!
Our preaching go cool people body, if we dey think different different way wey we go use take help dem learn the truth wey dey Bible.		Our ministry will refresh others when we think of different ways to help them learn more about the truth.
Paul talk some things wey dey Genesis 2: 2 and Psalm 95: 11 to really show sey Bible support this promise.		To underscore that this promise is based on the Scriptures, Paul quoted parts of Genesis 2: 2 and Psalm 95: 11.
SONG: 127, 101		SONGS: 127, 101
Serious sickness ( Check paragraph 15 )		Health problems ( See paragraph 15 )
Smile dey make person heart happy. Good news dey give person power. " ( Prov. 15: 23, 30, ftn. )		A cheerful glance makes the heart rejoice; a good report invigorates the bones. "
Some angel come this earth, and dem change their body to human being own.		In fact, in Noah 's day, " the earth was filled with violence. "
Some company dey produce plenty things pass before, even though sey people wey dey work for dem no many. This one dey cause stress and fit make workers sick.		Also, the constant push for increased production takes a heavy toll on people physically, mentally, and emotionally.
Some of dem never see oyibo before or the kind boat wey we carry.		Some had never seen a schooner or a white man before.
Some people fit talk sey e no suppose near other people because of the sickness. ( Lev.		It could be argued that she should have kept herself separate from others because of her condition.
That one no show sey our brothers and sisters use all their mind and power preach that time?		Those Bible Students were zealous!
That verse talk about how go take show sey na im get the right to rule and how e go take make im name holy.		That verse introduces the Bible 's primary theme, which is the vindication of God 's sovereignty and the sanctification of his name by means of the Kingdom.
The truth be sey, to learn new language dey take time, you go work put, and you go need to carry body down.		Granted, learning a new language takes time, effort, and humility.
This kind people no dey really happy.		Such self - centered people are not truly happy.
To know something, to understand am, and to get better sense no be the same thing.		Practical wisdom differs from knowledge and understanding.
True true, e no comot for their mind!		No doubt they long remembered the lesson!
We fit fight and win Satan because de help us!		With 's help, we can stand firm against him!
We go answer this three question: ( 1 ) Why Jesus no support any group wey them de fight to bring change?		Let us consider three main points: Why did Jesus refuse to get involved in separatist movements?
Wetin Jesus tell this im enemy dem?		Jesus ' reaction to all these man - made laws was simple.
Wetin be some of the problem wey Noah face, and wetin show sey e really try?		What challenges did Noah face, and why was his endurance remarkable?
Wetin we go gain if we dey do good?		What benefits come from being hospitable?
When I dey eight years, my papa and mama sell our house and barbing salon. Dem come build one small house wey person fit carry waka.		When I was eight years old, my parents sold their home and shops, built a small mobile home, and moved to Colorado to serve where the need was greater.
When Toby dey 12 years, im plan na to finish Bible before e baptize.		At 12 years of age, Toby set the goal of reading the entire Bible before his baptism.
When e dey there, dem come lie for im and Silas head, dem arrest dem, and put dem for prison.		While there, he and his companion Silas were arrested on false charges and thrown in jail.
You fit dey sure sey God go bless im servant and e go help dem make dem no too worry about any problem wey don happen before, wey dey happen now, or wey fit happen for front.		You can be certain that God can reward his faithful ones and help them deal with anxiety about the past, the present, and the future.
You fit no like how people for your new congregation dey do things.		Focus on their positive traits, just as you want them to focus on yours.
You no need to dey with Jesus before e go fit help you.		It can prove to be as true for you as it was for the apostles traveling with Jesus.
Even if this three people - Noah, Daniel, and Job - dey there, na only dem no go die because dem dey do wetin good, " na wetin the Oga wey high pass talk. '		Even if these three men - Noah, Daniel, and Job - were within it, they would be able to save only themselves because of their righteousness, ' declares the Sovereign Lord. "
near people wey something dey worry for mind. E dey save people wey no dey happy. ' - Ps.		is close to the brokenhearted; he saves those who are crushed in spirit. " - Ps.
Our brothers serious with the preaching work for World War I?		How active were our brothers in the preaching work during World War I?
But that one no mek Paul stop, im example mek other people strong.		But Paul never gave up, and his example strengthened others.
[CONTENT_REMOVED]		See opening pictures. )
True true, if to sey want, e for just give us power make we no sin again.		Yes, God could even give us the strength to conquer every weakness without having to struggle with or learn from our mistakes.
But because we dey make mistake, problem fit still dey marriage. ( 1 Cor.		Yet, the Scriptures clearly tell us that imperfect humans who get married " will have tribulation in their flesh. "
Give example wey show why e good make we quick pull the old character comot.		Illustrate why it is urgent to strip off the old personality.
Which advice Deuteronomy 6: 5 - 7 give papa and mama?		What admonition does Deuteronomy 6: 5 - 7 give to parents?
Na after 2,500 years don pass before tell us something about that enemy. ( Job 1: 6 ) The title wey Bible call this enemy na " Satan, " and e mean " Resister " ( person wey e no de gree ).		And God chose not to reveal even the descriptive name of that enemy until some 2,500 years after the initial rebellion.
Sometimes, God fit use punishment take correct person. But e no dey use wicked mind do am, and e no dey overdo am.		While his discipline may include chastisement, it is never abusive or cruel.
Why e good make we dey try greet stranger for our meeting?		Why should we make an earnest effort to greet strangers at the Kingdom Hall?
Listen to Correction Make You Get Sense "		Listen to Discipline and Become Wise "
The Law end the time wey Jesus die and God come start one new arrangement.		With the cancellation of the Law at Jesus ' death, God began a new arrangement.
If we show sey we get strong mind as we dey serve, we dey sure sey e go bless us now, and still bless us for front.		When we show courage in our worship of, we can be confident of his blessing now and in the future.
Pet. 2: 21 ) For example, we fit don notice am sey we too dey complain or sey we sabi do amebo and e fit even be sey sometimes we dey fear face.		For instance, we may have noted in ourselves a critical spirit, a fear of man, a tendency toward harmful gossip, or some other weakness.
And na the way wey Jesus live im life make us know. ( John 14: 9 ) People like the part wey dey talk about the things wey talk sey go happen wey never happen.		Others are fond of parts of the Bible containing prophecy - perhaps Revelation, with its preview of " the things that must shortly take place. "
As we de near the end of this world, people go de divide more - more. They go de do partial and de hate each other more - more. ( Gal. 5: 19 - 21; 2 Tim.		Divisions, prejudice, and hostility will doubtless increase in the world as we approach the end of this wicked system.
Because dem want show theirself, dem lie about wetin dem contribute. come punish dem for wetin dem do.		Not content to donate anonymously, they blatantly exaggerated their offering and suffered disaster for their hypocrisy.
Bible dey help people change their life!		Applying Bible principles transforms lives!
Bible talk sey animal wey people dey fear like wolf and lion, go dey stay with sheep and cow, and dem no go chop dem.		There we read about wild animals, such as wolves and lions, that live in peace with domestic animals, such as lambs and calves.
But e no talk sey na fight or sex matter go make am be like that. Instead, e talk sey people go allow other things comot their mind from God matter. - Read Matthew 24: 36 - 39.		Note that when Jesus compared our time with Noah 's, he focused, not on violence or immorality, but on the dangers of spiritual apathy. - Read Matthew 24: 36 - 39.
But e use Bible take answer their question well.		The audience applaud their approval.
But the man think about wetin fit happen for front.		Wisely, he thought of the long - term consequences of his actions.
Cte d 'Ivoire ( wey dem dey call Ivory Coast before ) dey produce plenty cocoa seed, wey dem dey use do chocolate.		Cte d 'Ivoire ( formerly Ivory Coast ) is a major producer of cocoa beans, which are used to make chocolate.
Didier and Nadine na husband and wife wey come from France. Dem don pass 50 years when dem pack go Madagascar for 2010.		When Didier and Nadine, a couple from France, moved to Madagascar in 2010, they were middle - aged.
E come tell for prayer sey if e give am pikin, e go ' carry am give make e dey im house until e die. '		In prayer, she vowed to that if she would bear a son, she would " give him to all the days of his life. "
E go need to take care of wife and pikin.		His duties increase because he has a new family member to care for and provide for.
E no get pikin. But Elkanah other wife, wey im name na Peninnah, get many children.		She remained barren while Elkanah 's other wife, Peninnah, produced offspring.
E no get who no dey do mistake. But, when we do mistake, make we use all our mind repent and stop to do things wey dey spoil name. - Ps.		When we make mistakes, as we all do, we genuinely repent and turn away from practices that dishonor. - Ps.
E no go get pikin wey go bear im papa name or inherit im property.		If anyone, then, needed comfort and encouragement, she did.
E still good make we remember sey we fit no know everything about the matter.		At the same time, we modestly acknowledge that we likely do not have all the facts.
For God Kingdom, which better things Jesus death go bring?		What blessings under Kingdom rule does the ransom make possible?
For example, wife go respect im husband and children go respect their papa and mama. ( Eph.		What is more, wives are to be in subjection to their husbands and children to their parents.
For one school wey e near their house, people de come carry their children when time reach. So this husband and wife arrange our books ontop table make this people fit see - am.		They display some Bible publications on a table at the time when parents come to pick up their children from a nearby school.
For the 33 years wey we dey traveling work, we spend 21 years for district work.		We spent 33 years in the traveling work, the last 21 of those in the district work.
For the fifth time wey Brother Russell go Ireland, e still give talk for there.		The fifth trip, mentioned at the outset, followed the same pattern.
For the first topic, we go learn how we fit make our faith grow and wetin we fit do to make am continue to dey strong.		The first article shows how our faith can grow and remain strong.
God love everybody for this world sotey e come send im Pikin, Jesus, make e come save us from sin and the wahala wey sin dey give us.		He loves the world so much that he has given his Son, Jesus, to rescue humans from sin and the harm that it brings to mankind.
How 1 Peter 5: 10 take concern Noah, Daniel, and Job story?		How do the words at 1 Peter 5: 10 reflect what occurred in the lives of Noah, Daniel, and Job?
How Peter take ' make im brothers strong '?		How did Peter ' strengthen his brothers '?
How papa and mama fit teach their pikin why dem suppose follow wetin dey Bible?		How might parents impress on their children the value of Bible principles?
How wetin dey Psalm 16: 10 take happen, and why e fit make us put mind for the resurrection?		In what way was Psalm 16: 10 fulfilled, confirming what about the promise of the resurrection?
I don go 33 country go help people. My mind sweet me!		In all, I have had the pleasure of visiting 's people in 33 countries.
If person wey don baptize sey e want stop to serve, e no fit talk sey e no promise or sey e no know wetin im baptism mean.		If a person tires of serving or of living a Christian way of life, he cannot claim that he was never really dedicated and that his baptism was invalid.
If we no do like that, some of dem fit dey draw body near us only because of wetin dem dey get from us. '		Otherwise, some may associate with us only for personal advantage.
If we no quick settle the matter, e fit make us start to carry face for dem, or stop to talk to dem. - Read 1 Peter 3: 8, 9.		If we fail to resolve such problems, they could easily lead to feelings of resentment. - Read 1 Peter 3: 8, 9.
go always dey there for us, even if person no dey there to help us. - Ps.		Even if we are beyond the reach of human help, is always there. - Ps.
know sey e no easy for us and e ready to help us fit control ourself. ( 1 Ki.		is aware of his servants ' struggles in this regard, and he wants to help them dominate their sinful tendencies.
make dem to fit choose wetin dem want do, to fit enjoy each other love, and to fit dey think well.		gave them free will, the ability to reason, and the capacity to love and to enjoy friendship.
tell Ezekiel sey make e write on top two stick.		told his prophet Ezekiel to write on two sticks.
Jesus no talk for the Sermon on the Mount sey dey give bird house to stay. But we know sey na give dem sense and things to fit make house for theirself.		Although Jesus did not mention providing shelter for the birds of heaven, has provided them with the instincts, skills, and materials needed to make nests for themselves.
Jesus tell the apostles say: " Make wuna continue to produce plenty fruit and de show say wuna be my disciples, because this one de bring my Father honor. "		Note that Jesus told his apostles: " My Father is glorified in this, that you keep bearing much fruit and prove yourselves my disciples. "
Like Christians for Thessalonica, we dey happy, and we believe sey Bible na God word. - 1 Thess.		We gratefully accept it as God 's message, even as the Christians in Thessalonica received God 's word and accepted it. - 1 Thess.
Man go get trouble with im papa. Daughter go get trouble with im mama. And daughter - in - law go get trouble with im mother - in - law.		For I came to cause division, with a man against his father, and a daughter against her mother, and a daughter - in - law against her mother - in - law.
Margaret, around 1968		Margaret, circa 1968
Me and my special pioneer partner ( right ), for Mistelbach, wey dey Austria		With my partner ( right ), serving as special pioneers in Mistelbach, Austria
Na Grant Suiter be the overseer for there. After some years, I come dey work for Nathan Knorr office.		After a couple of years there, I was called to the office of Nathan Knorr, who was then taking the lead in our worldwide work.
Na Solomon born Rehoboam. Solomon rule Israel for 40 years. ( 1 Ki.		Rehoboam 's father was Solomon, who reigned in Israel for 40 years.
Na only am be ' the Person wey dey teach us wetin go make our life better, the Person wey dey show us the road wey we suppose follow. ' ( Isa.		He alone is ' the One teaching us to benefit ourselves, the One guiding us in the way we should walk. '
Na this one make Ezekiel write im name for the Bible verse wey we take this topic from.		How can we be sure?
Na true sey diamond and other things like gold and coral cost well well.		Yes, humans may prize diamonds and other objects of value.
No forget sey when we dey sing, we dey worship. Make we no take am play.		Remember that singing is an important feature of our worship.
Romans 8: 6 talk why e good make person dey allow God spirit direct am. E sey: " To dey put mind for the flesh dey bring death.		Romans 8: 6 shows the advantage of being spiritually - minded, saying: " Setting the mind on the flesh means death, but setting the mind on the spirit means life and peace. "
SONG: 141, 134		SONGS: 141, 134
So, na help Israel people win the fight. - Ex.		Yes, God 's mighty hand enabled the Israelites to win the battle. - Ex.
So na now be the time to follow apostle Peter advice when e sey make we " dey do good " to each other. ( 1 Pet.		As never before, Peter 's counsel to Christians applies: " Be hospitable to one another, " a delightful and needed course that will have no end. - 1 Pet.
Support arrangement.		Respect the discipline of.
That time, dem go release Devil from prison, and e go deceive people again.		The Devil, released from imprisonment and intent on misleading mankind, will no doubt appeal to selfishness.
The brothers love each other and dem dey do things with one mind. This one go make you see sey hand dey. "		You get to experience our worldwide brotherhood and see its miraculous unity firsthand. "
The people wey use their mind support the war see how take show sey na im be the Ruler.		Those who volunteered witnessed firsthand how magnifies his sovereignty.
The place really busy. The first traffic light wey dem put for the city, make people happy.		Just a week earlier, the first electric traffic lights had made an appearance in this bustling city of over one million inhabitants.
The police come talk sey: " Any other bad thing wey you do better pass sey you be Witness. "		The officer retorted: " Any crime other than being a Witness is better. "
The two group waka ontop the wall go different side, until dem meet for the wall wey near the temple. Even people for far place hear the song wey dem sing. ( Neh.		Walking in opposite directions, the choirs met on the wall close to the temple area to create a sound that could be heard from far away.
The wife feel say the husband no de do e work to help the family serve.		The wife felt unevenly yoked spiritually.
This one show sey im papa and mama go don train am well.		It reflected good parental training.
This people no play with the work wey dem do for.		These men valued their God - given assignments.
This things dey for Bible because want make we learn from dem. ( Rom.		had these accounts recorded for a purpose.
To choose wetin you want do be like person wey dey junction. E go need to choose which road e want follow.		Making decisions is like choosing the right road when you come to an intersection.
To show sey we value life like, we no go do anything wey fit put person life for danger.		We also share 's view of life by cultivating a proper attitude toward safety.
We go dey do am make other people see am.		We must do this in ways that are clearly evident to others.
We happy to know sey if we ' throw that load wey dey heavy us give, e go help us '! ( Ps.		How comforting it is for us to ' throw our burden on, ' knowing that ' he will sustain us '!
We talk sey one day all of us fit travel go Africa, and our pikin want make we go.		We expressed the hope that someday all four of us might take a trip to Africa together.
Wetin e mean to produce fruit?		How can we bear fruit?
Wetin e teach fit even make peace no dey their family again. Jesus no teach people God message to cause wahala for family.		Of course, Jesus ' motive was to proclaim God 's message of truth, not to damage relationships.
What about Sarah? Sarah na Joseph great - grandmama.		Think, too, about Joseph 's great - grandmother Sarah.
Which thing we fit do to encourage people wey dey serve well?		What is one way that we can encourage those who are serving faithfully?
Which wahala Daniel and im three friend face for Babylon?		What big challenges did Daniel and his three companions face in Babylon?
You go remember sey, people talk this thing when Jesus dey enter Jerusalem for Nisan 9, before e die. ( Ps. 118: 25, 26; Matt.		You likely recall that people quoted this Messianic passage when Jesus rode into Jerusalem on Nisan 9, shortly before his death.
The Work Big No Be Small ' ( contribution ), Nov.		The Work Is Great " ( contributions ), Nov.
One way wey take show sey e love us, na the way e dey bless im servant wey no leave am. As we dey love, our faith go dey strong.		As one expression of his tender love, has taken the initiative to bless his loyal servants.
Make papa first take im time do research for Bible and our book dem, before e choose wetin to do. E still good make e ask im wife and children wetin dem think about the matter.		Before determining a course of action, a family head ought to take the time to research the Scriptures and Christian publications, as well as to consider the opinions or views of others in his family.
Disciples of Jesus go fit do this work if they fight to remove the partial wey they get, and they no dey proud.		To fulfill their commission, Jesus ' disciples needed to conquer the pride and prejudice they had.
But what if your husband or wife no dey do wetin Bible talk?		But what if your mate does not follow the Bible 's high standard of conduct?
E fit be sey na this Joseph example wey e get for mind help am do wetin like.		Thinking about this example may have helped Jephthah to react in a way that pleased.
If just do am make we fit dey do wetin e like, we go fit talk sey we really dey support from our mind?		However, if completely relieved us of the need to exert ourselves to fight our imperfect tendencies so as to please him, any claim of loyalty and support of his sovereignty would be meaningless.
Like apostle Paul, many of us no dey happy because dem born us with sin.		Many of God 's faithful servants have echoed those words of the apostle Paul.
Wetin be the wahala wey Rachel face?		What distressing situation did Rachel face?
Wetin go happen for God Kingdom?		We look forward to what time?
Wetin this one go make us do?		How should what we know about the future affect our view of material wealth?
Why dem use copper take make the two mountain?		Why are the mountains made of copper?
For many place, dem dey suffer Witness people so that dem go stop to preach. But even for this place dem, many people still dey enter organization.		The overall growth of the preaching and disciple - making work despite fierce opposition in some lands has likewise been possible only with superhuman assistance.
na God wey dey happy, and im people still dey happy.		wrote the psalmist.
How endurance fit finish im ' work ' for our life?		What " work " must endurance complete?
Get Strong Faith for Wetin You Dey Wait For		Strengthen Your Faith in What You Hope For
If you follow advice, Satan no go fit deceive you or spoil your mind!		Then, you will win the battle for your mind!
Dem Use Their Mind Do the Work - For Turkey		They Offered Themselves Willingly - In Turkey
This thing wey use Ezekiel talk don happen fo our time?		Has this promise of unity come true in our time?
Elders for congregation suppose try well well to dey show example for this area. - Eph.		As " gifts in men, " the elders ought to take the lead in this regard. - Eph.
To build that kind ark fit be big work for Noah eye.		Noah surely knew that it would bring on even more ridicule and opposition.
We fit ' let sin continue to rule ' us if we dey do anything wey our body wey get sin want make we do.		We could " let sin continue to rule " by doing whatever our imperfect body moves us to do.
How Elisha take help one woman wey im pikin die? ( b ) The miracle wey Elisha do, wetin e teach us about?		Relate what Elisha did to relieve a woman 's grief. ( b ) What does Elisha 's miracle prove about?
And Nathan na that kind friend.		Nathan was such a friend.
And why e good make papa and mama make sure sey God Word touch their pikin mind?		And why should Christian parents make sure that God 's Word reaches their children 's hearts?
Apart from sey we go dey read Bible every day, we need to still study Bible with our book, like Watchtower and Awake!. This one go fit help us know how we go take dey do things like.		In addition to daily Bible reading, we need to study God 's Word along with our Christian publications with a view to imitating 's wonderful qualities.
Because we no dey support all this government, our mind no dey judge us when we dey preach sey na only God Kingdom go fit comot all the problem for this world.		Because we do not support human governments, we have a clean conscience when we preach that only God 's Kingdom will solve all mankind 's problems.
Bible talk about other people wey trust and wey serve am well. This people no stop to do things wey help dem when dem get problem.		Likely, you can think of other faithful servants of old who trusted in while taking appropriate action.
Bible talk sey: ' E dey give people wey dey fear am wetin dem want; e dey hear as dem dey beg am mek e help dem, and e go help dem. '		The Bible says: " He satisfies the desire of those who fear him; he hears their cry for help, and he rescues them. "
Brother Carl de serve as elder, and e don pass 50 years wey e baptize. E talk say: " I de find any small sign wey e go show say person want know the truth. E fit be say the person smile or e ask better question. "		Says Carl, an elder who was baptized over 50 years ago, " I look for any small sign that may reveal a person 's sincerity, perhaps a smile, a kind look, or an honest question. "
But Witness people for the whole world dey around eight million and dem dey preach for 240 country.		Worldwide, some eight million volunteer ministers preach to people in 240 lands.
But don give us better hope.		But provides us with a wonderful hope.
But today, we dey do one big work - we dey preach the good news so that people go come serve.		Now, though, there is vitally important work that all of us can participate in - preaching the good news and making disciples.
But wetin Paul tell dem for the letter?		What lesson was Paul teaching them?
But wetin you plan go get head if plenty people advice you. ' ( Prov. 15: 22 ) This brothers and sisters fit tell you sey pioneer na something wey go help you for life.		Such spiritual people may tell you that the full - time ministry provides an education that benefits you throughout life.
Dem know God people to be people wey dey do wetin dey bring peace. Dem dey do wetin apostle Paul talk for Bible, when e sey: ' No use bad thing pay anybody wey do you bad.		This identifying trait of true Christians harmonizes with the apostle Paul 's inspired exhortation: " Return evil for evil to no one.
Dem let Bible help dem know wetin to do, whether na matter about wetin dem believe or how congregation go dey do things. - Acts 1: 20 - 22; 15: 15 - 20.		Whether they were settling doctrinal issues or they were giving organizational direction, those spirit - anointed elders were led by the Scriptures. - Acts 1: 20 - 22; 15: 15 - 20.
Dem like Bible well well, and dem want make everybody get am. Dem dey waka from village to village for England dey preach.		Desiring to get God 's Word into the mind and heart of ordinary people, itinerant preachers, known as the Lollards, traveled on foot from village to village throughout England.
Dem no go talk sey we dey join fight dem? '		Would they not view us as active combatants?
Dem write this three letter " ADV " ( wey be the first three letter for " Advertise " ) for everywhere, for tree, house and even for the convention program!		The letters " ADV " were everywhere - on trees, on buildings, even on the convention program!
E be like sey Jesus dey talk about the fish wey dey there, or the fish business wey Peter dey do.		It seems that Jesus was referring to the fish lying nearby and / or the fishing business.
E fit be say they circumcise Timothy when e dey around 20 years. Na e gree make they do - am, even though say e de pain. As e de go preach to Jew people, e no want make their conscience worry them say e never circumcise.		While likely in his late teens or early 20 ' s, the young man Timothy submitted to painful circumcision in order to avoid stumbling Jews to whom he was going to preach.
E fit still affect im liver, im pancreas, and e fit cause other problem for im belle.		It can affect the liver and the pancreas, and it can cause digestive problems.
E go one marriage.		He attended " a marriage feast " and " a big reception feast. "
E go write am for letter sey if e need the money, branch office go return am.		Include a letter stating that the donation is conditional.
E notice how e go take fool them so that they go do the thing wey e want. E use women set trap for the angels, and the trap catch them.		When at least some of these angels took the bait and had immoral relations with women, they produced a hybrid race that dominated mankind.
E sey: " Na turn by turn e go happen: Christ na the firstfruits. After, e go be the turn of people wey be Christ own when e dey around. " - 1 Cor.		Paul went on to indicate that there would be others raised to heavenly life, adding: " Each one in his own proper order: Christ the firstfruits, afterward those who belong to the Christ during his presence. " - 1 Cor.
E tell brothers and sisters for congregation sey: ' Make una no let sin continue to rule as king for una body make una no come dey do the things wey una body want. ' ( Rom.		He urged his brothers: " Do not let sin continue to rule as king in your mortal bodies so that you should obey their desires. "
Even self, because we no dey fit speak or hear another language well, e fit affect the way we dey think and make us tire to serve.		Moreover, the inability to communicate well in another language can be mentally and spiritually draining.
Even with this problem, Sylviana still do wetin e get for mind. For 2014, Sylviana and one young sister wey dey im congregation, come join hand go one small village. The sister name na Sylvie Ann and im na pioneer.		In 2014, Sylviana nevertheless teamed up with Sylvie Ann, a young pioneer sister in her congregation, and they moved to a small village 53 miles ( 85 km ) from their hometown.
For Israel, wetin dey good about the road and the place wey they build the city wey person fit run go, if e kill somebody by mistake?		What should impress us about the locations and roads connected to the cities of refuge in Israel?
For example, think about the things wey we don change about wetin we believe wey dey " Beliefs Clarified. "		For example, reflect on the list of beliefs clarified that was referred to in the preceding paragraph.
From east of Australia the country far reach about 1,100 miles ( 1,770 km ).		In the mid - 1980 ' s, Wendy moved to Vanuatu, an island nation about 1,100 miles ( 1,770 km ) east of Australia.
God talk to Adam and e tell am how e go take do wetin e want.		The Creator spoke to Adam and instructed him on how to show his obedience.
How Bible take use faith and love together, but which one big pass? And why?		How are faith and love highlighted together in the Scriptures, but which is the greatest, and why?
How Jesus and the people wey God use lead for olden days take show sey.		How did the leaders of God 's ancient people and Jesus Christ give evidence that they were.
How brothers fit dey use Bible well when dem dey teach for Kingdom Hall?		How can those who teach from the platform make the Scriptures the focus of their teaching?
How we fit help people wey we meet for preaching love Bible?		What can help us to direct attention to the Bible in the ministry?
If na yes be the answer, which Memorial go be the last one?		If so, when?
If to sey e want go study law for university, e for go and e for no pay money. But, e start to do part - time work.		She could have accepted a scholarship to study law at a university, but she chose instead to work in a bank.
If we dey praise people like that, what about? You no think sey we suppose dey praise am?		If that is true of humans, how much more do we have reason to praise God!
If we want get strong faith, we no go only read Bible, but we go make sure sey we " understand am. "		The key to strong faith is not simply to read God 's Word but to ' get the sense ' of it.
If you waste time, life for paradise fit no reach your hand.		Do not delay - your everlasting future is at stake!
If your family person leave, wetin fit help you bear am?		What can help you to cope if a family member leaves?
Instead, na chance for us to take show sey we support the way God dey rule. ( Prov.		Far from indicating 's displeasure, they provide for us a means to show that we support God 's sovereignty.
Instead, we want make Jesus tell us sey: ' I know wetin you dey do, the love wey you get, the faith wey you get, how you dey preach and how you dey endure. I still know sey the things wey you dey do now, better pass wetin you don do before. ' ( Rev.		Instead, we want Jesus to be able to say of us: " I know your deeds, and your love and faith and ministry and endurance, and that your deeds of late are more than those you did at first. "
no want make anybody die for Armageddon.		does not want any to be destroyed in the coming judgment.
Jesus get family and e know other people. E fit be sey na when e dey young some of dem die.		In his younger years, Jesus no doubt had to deal with the deaths of family members and acquaintances.
Like Joseph, Jesus Christ continue to do wetin God want even when the wahala plenty and God bless am.		Jesus Christ likewise remained obedient to God through various tests of his faith, and he was rewarded.
Like Martha, why e good make you believe sey people wey don die go come life again?		Why would you like to have the conviction that Martha had?
Make we look the matter from two side.		Let us discuss this matter of delegating from two angles.
Make you teach our children this truth. "		Teach it to the children. "
Na im make for this topic, we go learn about people for Bible wey show sey dem get strong mind.		To that end, we can reflect on some past examples of courage.
Na we don preach go far pass, we don preach go reach different different country and for different different language.		Our work has the greatest scope, reaching out to people of all nations and languages.
Other people want dey free to talk wetin dem like, to choose anything wey dem like, and to live the way dem want.		Others demand to have freedom of speech, of choice, and of self - determination.
Peter don first talk sey even though sey everybody run, e no go run.		Peter had earlier stated that even if the others did that, he would not.
So dem sey make I start to dey do the work wey the brother dey do before. I come dey work with Don Adams for there.		I was assigned to take his place and work alongside Don Adams.
So make we always de greet people because of the power wey greeting carry.		So let us never underestimate the power of a greeting.
Sometimes, we fit tire to fight or we fit tire to wait mek this wicked world end.		Sometimes we may get tired of fighting. Or we may get tired of waiting for the end of this wicked system.
That place sey make we ' comot eye for things wey God no like, and things wey this world like.		Self - discipline is an important part of that growth.
The angel greet Mary first before e talk anything.		He started off with a greeting.
The night before im baptize, im papa do one better thing.		On the night before her baptism, her father did a beautiful thing.
The person wey invite us fit don prepare sey we dey come. If we no go, e mean sey the person fit don waste im time. ( Matt.		Our host may well have made preparations, and all his effort may be for nothing if we cancel.
The sister talk sey: " For the place where I dey work, my workmate send message to other people wey we dey work together. E spoil my name give dem and e talk bad thing about the work wey I dey do.		She relates: " Once, a coworker sent an e - mail to my colleagues with negative comments about me and the work I was doing.
The word " then " wey dey verse 12 mean sey all the better things wey verse 12 to 14 dey talk about go happen to righteous people.		The use of " then " in verse 12 means that the blessings that follow in verses 12 to 14 are understood as applying to the righteous - those who ask to be ' rescued and saved ' from the wicked.
Their story no be " dem sey dem sey, " we see wetin make us believe dem.		There is strong evidence to support this testimony.
This one fit make us no be friend again, and we no go get wetin God promise us.		Immoral desires can be very powerful and can deprive us of spiritual treasures.
This one give us time to dey talk with dem.		These periods of recreation afforded us time to converse with the girls as we rode up the ski lifts together.
This one go make happy with us and bless us as e take bless Joseph.		Such an approach is sure to bring 's approval and blessing, just as it did in the case of Joseph.
This one mean sey we and na friend. - Rom.		Because of our dedication to, we also enjoy " peace with God, " a good relationship with him. - Rom.
This one sweet Hannah well well! But e no forget wetin e promise.		Still, she did not forget the vow she had made to God.
This sister first dey put eye for how e go take go school and get better work. E think sey this one go make im life get head.		She focused on pursuing higher education and good employment in order to get ahead in life.
To show sey you dey open your heart, make you love all the brothers and sisters.		Widen out in your brotherly affection.
Today, that kind thing dey cause problem for congregation sometimes.		Similar situations sometimes cause difficulties in congregations of 's people today.
Try think of different different style wey you fit use.		Try to use your imagination.
We dey study Bible together for our meeting, we get love, and we dey use better mind help each other.		The study of God 's Word at our meetings and the kind and loving support that we give one another help us to keep our eyes focused on the prize.
We get 83 congregation and 25 group wey dey use different language. The language na Chinese, English, Kyrgyz, Russian, Russian Sign Language, Turkish, Uighur, and Uzbek.		Today, we have a total of 83 congregations and 25 groups in Chinese, English, Kyrgyz, Russian, Russian Sign Language, Turkish, Uighur, and Uzbek.
We still dey the branch office for Quezon City		We still serve at the branch office in Quezon City
Wetin go help us endure problem?		What will help us to endure?
Wetin make me still hate them na because of wetin I suffer for their hand. "		This hatred was also fueled by the abuse I had personally experienced.
Wetin our better character fit make people do?		How may our speech and conduct benefit others spiritually?
Wetin show sey na God help the brothers wey direct the work for apostle time and Governing Body for our time?		What evidence is there that God directed the governing body in the first century just as he is directing those of the Governing Body today?
Wetin we go talk about for the next topic?		What will be discussed in the next article?
When Abraham and Sarah wait for reach?		How long did Abraham and Sarah have to wait on?
When army, navy or air force no dey?		Just think - no armies, navies, or air forces!
When me and my husband just marry for 1949 for Hemsworth		In Hemsworth shortly after our wedding in 1949
When plenty soldier want come fight Judah people, Jehoshaphat no leave. E do like Asa im papa.		Like his father, Asa, Jehoshaphat maintained his devotion to God even when threatened by an overwhelming enemy force.
When you get the mind to go another country go help people know, you dey put yourself for hand.		he says. " When you move abroad with the purpose of helping people to get to know, you are in reality putting yourself in his hands.
Why the advice wey de give dey like the iron wey soldier de wear for chest?		Why is righteousness likened to a breastplate?
You go learn better things from old brothers and sisters if you make friend with them ( Check paragraph 11 )		Taking an interest in older ones is very upbuilding ( See paragraph 11 )
Your answer to this question go help you know if you dey follow God waka like Noah.		May your answers show that you too ' walk with the true God. '
Where spirit dey, freedom dey there. " - 2 COR.		Where the spirit of is, there is freedom. " - 2 COR.
Wetin this one show us?		What can we conclude?
Bible talk about one sister for Rome wey im name na Mary; e ' do plenty work ' for people wey dey congregation. ( Rom.		Mary, a sister in Rome, " worked hard " in behalf of those in the congregation.
So, the message wey Paul preach dey important pass the kind body and face wey e get.		That message is certainly more significant than any concern about what Paul may have looked like.
God spirit make Lamech talk sey: ' Because curse the ground, we dey do hard work sotey our hand dey pain us.		Under inspiration, Lamech said: " This one [ Noah ] will bring us comfort from. the painful toil of our hands because of the ground that has cursed. "
Dem no dey teach people sey God Kingdom na government wey dey heaven and sey na Jesus Christ be the King wey God don choose. Dem no even dey talk sey na this Kingdom go comot all the bad people and the problem wey dey this world. ( Rev.		They do not help people to understand that God 's Kingdom is a heavenly government with Jesus Christ as Ruler, that it is the solution to all mankind 's problems, and that it will soon remove all wickedness from this earth.
No matter wetin other people talk, na our hand e dey to follow wetin we don learn for Bible.		Still, no matter how others try to pressure us, it is our responsibility to follow our Bible - trained conscience.
E really dey possible to make peace with everybody? Wetin we go gain if we try to make peace?		Is that really possible, and what benefits come from our efforts to make peace?
Wetin we go talk about for the next topic?		What will be discussed in the next article?
Why Paul feel like that?		Why did Paul experience such feelings?
We dey show love when we correct person wey do wetin e no suppose do.		When we walk in love, we will also give proper discipline when needed.
E good make we follow im example.		Imitate his example.
That man no get faith like Abraham. But, e get other people wey don show sey dem get faith.		That man lacked faith like that of Abraham, but others have shown implicit trust in God.
If you see any new person wey just sitdown by imself, you fit call am make e sitdown with you?		If a visitor is not already being cared for, could you invite him to sit with you?
Isa. 57: 15 ) E dey give us sense and power to fit bear any wahala. - Jas.		He gives us wisdom and strength so that we can cope with any troubles we may face. - Jas.
After, because another person lie for Joseph head, dem come put am for prison.		Later, Joseph was falsely accused and unjustly imprisoned.
After some years, the pikin come back to.		Now she calls or texts me nearly every day!
And dem no waste time before dem baptize. - Acts 2: 41; 9: 18; 16: 14, 15, 32, 33.		And they did not unnecessarily delay getting baptized. - Acts 2: 41; 9: 18; 16: 14, 15, 32, 33.
And na una work to talk about am.		You are his publicity agents.
And wetin fit help us if we dey face this kind wahala?		How can we successfully deal with the challenges it brings?
Another brother wey im name na Fred Twarosh talk sey: ' Everybody come stand up together. '		The whole audience rose to its feet as one, " stated Fred Twarosh.
As God Word dey our hand, e don make us fit near God and God don near us. ( Jas.		With the written Word of God in hand, we have drawn close to and he has drawn close to us.
Ask yourself, ' Na so I be? '		Ask yourself, ' Might it be that this is true in my case? '
Because Abraham want settle the matter quick quick, e tell Lot make e choose the land wey e want. ( Gen.		Eager to eliminate tensions, Abraham offered Lot first choice of the areas where their respective households would settle.
Because we be Christian, e good make we check wetin dey our mind about how people dey do business today.		As Christians, we do well to examine our view of today 's commercial system by asking ourselves such questions as these: ' How can I use my material possessions to show faithfulness to God?
Before our papa come back from work, this person go care for our small brothers and sisters, and cook food for the family.		We would take turns so that one of us could be at home to take care of the younger children and have dinner ready for the family by the time Dad came home from work.
Before this time, Jesus don prepare them for this big work.		Before ascending to heaven, he assigned them to bear witness to " all Judea and Samaria, and to the most distant part of the earth. "
Bible dey use better word wey sweet for ear, if e dey talk about some women.		The Bible uses an especially kind and tender word when referring to certain women.
But, God dey happy when we tell our brothers and sisters word wey go make dem strong. ( Prov.		Yet, God is pleased when we speak encouragingly to fellow believers and others.
But, still dey allow us to choose wetin we like.		Still, what we wear involves some personal preference.
But, we don really know wetin dey their mind.		Yet, we learned what was really in their hearts.
But e know sey people know how e take dey pray everyday.		He knew that his daily custom was well - known.
But we thank sey e bless wetin we fit do.		But we thank for blessing our efforts and sacrifices.
Dem no get any person wey be leader or pastor, this one dey make dem fit save money. "		There is no clergy, which cuts costs considerably. "
E come pray to sey make E no forget how e don use all im mind serve am.		He begged to remember how he had walked before Him.
E dey make person fear sometimes. "		You have to decide what to do with the rest of your life. "
E no happy at all as some of im family people stop to serve. One of dem na im papa, wey be elder before.		Henri, a young brother, was greatly distressed when his close relatives, including his father, who had been a respected elder, left the truth.
E see the stars wey dey up, but e no know how many dem be.		Consider this: The psalmist could see the stars with his physical eyes, but he had no idea of how many there really are.
E sey make I dey do wetin go make my faith strong again and make I no tire. '		He encouraged me to regain my spiritual strength and not to give up. "
E tell Pilate say the work wey e come do na to " tell people the truth. " - Read John 18: 37.		He told Pilate that his work on earth was to " bear witness to the truth. " - Read John 18: 37.
E think sey that one go mek me change my mind.		She thought that this would convince me to stay.
For example, United States president talk sey make people use May 30, 1918 take pray for peace. Governing Body come talk for Watch Tower sey make the Bible Students do wetin government talk.		For example, when the president of the United States decreed that May 30, 1918, would be set aside as a day of prayer for peace, The Watch Tower urged the Bible Students to join in the observance.
For example, dem fit ask you sey " Wetin bad if you sleep with person? "		There you will find a worksheet entitled " Why Do I Believe in God? "
For example, e praise one army officer from different place because of e strong faith.		He praised a foreign army officer for his outstanding faith.
For example, when elders dey handle matter about serious sin, or dem want help person wey dey hospital and im life dey danger, dem need strong mind.		For instance, elders need courage when caring for judicial matters or when helping those who face life - threatening medical emergencies.
For some years, dem don dey think about how dem go take go another country go dey preach. But Perrine no want go.		For years, they had been thinking about expanding their ministry by moving abroad, but Perrine hesitated to move.
God use im ' strong power ' and ' strong hand, ' make Jew people hand wey don weak, strong.		God used his " great power " and " mighty hand " to strengthen the Jews ' drooping hands.
How Bible study go take help you and your family learn how to dey control unaself?		How can Bible study help you and your family to cultivate self - control?
How Christian suppose to see fight - fight and trouble wey people want use end the problems for this world?		What is the Christian 's position on the use of violence?
How Jesus take different from Adam?		How did the man Jesus differ from the man Adam?
How Pharisee people take dey behave?		How was the Pharisees ' attitude in contrast with God 's mercy?
How we fit gain from any correction wey elders give us?		How can we benefit fully from any Scriptural discipline we may receive in the Christian congregation?
I come tell some of the brothers sey make we go use Kingdom Hall.		Once in San Pablo City, a downpour prevented me from giving a talk at a public market, so I suggested to the responsible brothers that it be given in the Kingdom Hall.
I dey call this book " My Survival Notebook. "		I call it ' My Survival Notebook. '
I dey see people the way dey see dem? '		Do I strive to see others as sees them? '
I remember one priest wey I preach to.		I especially remember one priest.
If person dey try talk sey you no get sense because you believe sey God dey, wetin you go do?		If someone seems to be attacking your belief in creation, you may tactfully shift the responsibility to him.
If you fit do am, you don taste be that. And you go see sey good. - Ps.		If you are, you will no doubt " taste and see that is good. " - Ps.
If you remember, the time wey High Priest Caiaphas use vex tell Jesus sey: ' I want make you use the God wey no dey die, take swear sey you go tell us whether na you be Christ, God Pikin! '		Recall, for instance, when High Priest Caiaphas exclaimed: " I put you under oath by the living God to tell us whether you are the Christ, the Son of God! "
Israel people no do wetin talk. ( Deuteronomy 7: 1 - 4 ) Many people for Israel, both man and woman, come dey serve juju and dey live the kind bad life wey Canaan people dey live.		Nearly 300 years earlier, had commanded the Israelites to kill all false worshippers in the Promised Land, but they did not obey.
make people to fit get the kind character wey e get.		Humans were created " in God 's image. "
no dey joke with this kind promise at all, and e no want make person play with am.		does not take that promise lightly, and it should not be taken lightly by anyone who has made it.
Jim talk sey: " E no ever blame me for wetin happen to me or even talk sey wetin I do bad.		Not once did he blame me for my situation or criticize me, " comments Jim.
Later, I come dey boarding school for Graz.		Later, I went to boarding school.
Like Joseph, wetin you go do if person no treat you well?		How can you follow Joseph 's example if others treat you unfairly?
Love go help us get faith for wetin God don talk for Bible. - 1 Cor.		It has faith in the things God has said in his Word of truth. - 1 Cor.
Make we dey put eye for things wey concern God Kingdom and make am the number one thing for our life. This one go help us near God more more.		We have to pay attention to our spirituality, to our relationship with, and to Kingdom priorities.
Make we pray to make e give us power to continue to serve am well, so that we fit still be im friend. This one go show sey na only we trust.		We would show our full trust in by supplicating him in prayer to give us the strength to keep faithful and not lose our joy and spiritual balance.
Many Jew people even hate am sotey dem talk sey make dem kill am.		Many Jews rejected him to the point of clamoring for his death.
Na Jesus Christ, wey Bible talk about as ' my servant David, ' be their King. ( Ezek. 37: 24, 25 ) Jesus pray sey make all im disciple get one mind just as im and im Father get one mind.		Jesus prayed that all his followers would ' be one, just as his Father is in union with him and he is in union with his Father. '
Na Jesus Christ be the Lamb wey Revelation 5: 13 dey talk about. Yes, na im be ' God Lamb ' wey carry our sin comot.		The Lamb is Jesus Christ, " the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. "
Na that time we go come see sey, true true, Bible get power to fit change our life! - 2 Cor.		Indeed, we will to a greater extent unleash its power in our own life. - 2 Cor.
Na this one still make God no tell us the kind work wey we go do; the kind film wey we go watch; or even the medicine wey person go take if e dey sick.		For similar reasons, God 's inspired Word does not provide a lot of rules designed to govern a Christian 's choice of employment, health care, and entertainment.
Na true sey allow those bad things happen to Paul. But this one give am chance to preach the good news.		Although had allowed an injustice to occur, this ultimately resulted in " the defending and legally establishing of the good news. "
One of this people na Emil Yantzen wey dem born for Kyrgyzstan for 1919.		One such former exile was Emil Yantzen, who had been born in Kyrgyzstan in 1919.
One thing wey Bible talk about dey Genesis 3: 15.		One fascinating prophecy to consider is Genesis 3: 15.
PICTURE WEY DEY FRONT COVER		COVER IMAGE:
People wey get mind like this brother continue to dey use sense preach for my area for northern Kyrgyzstan.		Such intrepid kept on cautiously spreading the good news in my home region of northern Kyrgyzstan.
Ruth mind no rest because e no know the person wey get the farm wey e for dey gather wetin remain.		She too had reason to feel unsure of herself because she was gleaning barley on the land of a man unknown to her.
Satan make am be like sey na God dey punish Job.		Satan accomplished this in a way that made it appear as if God himself had been the cause of Job 's troubles.
Small - small farm plenty around our town, and na corn be the main thing wey people de plant.		The town of Liberty was surrounded by small farms, and the basic crop was corn.
So, na our work to do everything wey we fit do to tell people how don show sey e love us and how dem fit gain.		We therefore owe it to all people to do our utmost to make known to them how is expressing his love and how they can benefit from it personally.
So, papa and mama, e good make una know the truth wey dey Bible and wey dey our publication.		So parents, be good students of the Bible and of our study aids.
So which people really dey preach about God Kingdom today?		So who really are preaching the good news of the Kingdom today?
Some people study about this Abraham and Isaac story. One of dem talk sey e go hard Abraham and Isaac to carry fire travel from the start of that long journey go reach the end.		Regarding the account in question, at least one commentator believes that a flame could " scarcely have been kept going throughout the long journey " that Abraham and Isaac made.
The people gain?		Did the students benefit?
This kind work fit make us be big man, get people wey we dey control, and e fit make people know us well well.		Such a career may promise status, authority, and wealth.
This one make dem carry am go Caesarea, where Rome government for dey direct Judea And this one na better chance to preach to high people wey dey government, and maybe to people wey no know about Jesus before.		That led to his being taken to Caesarea, from where the Romans administered Judea. There he would have unusual opportunities to give a bold witness before the authorities. That likely introduced Christianity more fully to people who might not know much about it.
This one mean sey really know dem one by one. ( 1 Cor.		This means that each star is unique to.
To bear problem dey mek us be better Christian ( Check paragraph 15, 16 )		When we endure trials, our Christian personality becomes more complete ( See paragraphs 15, 16 )
Two bad people lie sey one man don curse God and their king.		A man is falsely accused of a capital offense.
We dey help people for congregation to dey together.		We stay close to our brothers.
We no ever forget this our plan to go Bethel, but e no gree come quick!		We never lost that desire to serve at Bethel - but it proved to be a long time in coming!
Wetin be some problem wey we dey face? But wetin dey make happy?		What pressures must we deal with, but what reason does have to be pleased with his faithful servants?
Wetin dey 1 Peter 5: 10 still concern people wey dey serve God today.		Through Peter 's inspired words, assures us that he will make his servants firm and strong.
Wetin go make papa and mama go back to congregation wey dey use the language wey their pikin dey understand well?		What factors might influence parents to move back to a congregation that uses the language their children best understand?
Wetin the mama do go teach the pikin sey if person no obey, e fit get punishment.		That may impress on him that disobedience has consequences.
Wetin we need to do to show sey na side we dey?		What is our role in supporting 's side of the issue of sovereignty?
When Damaris finish secondary school, im result good well well.		Damaris finished her basic schooling with top grades.
When dem build the wall finish, dem come dedicate am. The music wey dem play make everybody happy well well.		When the rebuilt walls were dedicated, the special music presentation contributed greatly to the joy of the occasion.
When e dey come back, angel send Philip make e go preach to am. Philip tell the man " the good news about Jesus. "		Prompted by 's angel, Philip approached the Ethiopian and " declared to him the good news about Jesus. "
When you come out, you go don old and na only you go come dey. "		When you come out, you will be old and alone. "
When you dey teach your Bible student, you dey always remember to talk why e good for person to baptize?		Do you bear in mind the importance of baptism, conveying that to your student?
Why we fit talk sey ' good news about God Kingdom ' na the same thing with good news about ' God favor '?		Why can we say that the " good news of the Kingdom " is the same as the good news of " the undeserved kindness of God "?
Why you believe sey nobody fit arrange things like?		What convinces you that is the incomparable Organizer?
Your pikin dey look wetin you dey do, and that one go affect how their own life go be.		Your children will observe what you do, and it certainly will affect them for the good.
But how Hannah feel?		But what did that mean for Hannah?
Wetin we fit do to make sure sey we continue to get one mind?		How can we personally contribute to that unity?
As time dey go, the pain go dey go down. - wp16.3, p.		In time, the grief will soften. - wp16.3, p.
If to sey leave wetin happen, nobody for heaven or earth go get hope sey wahala go end one day.		If he had tolerated it, the well - being of all living creatures - in heaven and on earth - would be threatened.
You fit go prison or suffer other things because of sey you dey side.		You may be sent to prison or punished in some other way because of being loyal to.
Later, Elihu and help Job see sey human being small well well for where God dey. And na the things wey make dem use take help am know this one.		Later, both Elihu and used aspects of creation to remind Job of man 's insignificance compared with God 's greatness.
But, the small thing wey we know about planet, star, and galaxies ( different different group of star wey dey together ) dey make us talk sey dem arrange am well.		Yet, the little we know about planets, stars, and galaxies moves us to acknowledge that these celestial bodies are superbly organized.
Peter make mistake many times, and e do wetin for make Jesus vex for am. ( Matt.		Peter in particular disappointed Jesus several times.
Make dem no do wetin go spoil name or wetin go make person dey look dem with one kind eye. ( Matt.		They should avoid any practice that might bring reproach on 's name or stumble others.
E be like sey Paul later win the case - and Caesar court free am. - Phil.		It appears that Paul 's defense of the good news before high officials was a success - Caesar 's court freed Paul. - Phil.
Why e be sey na only God Kingdom fit solve our problem?		Why can only God 's Kingdom solve mankind 's problems?
Wetin do about the matter?		How did make his feelings known?
Paul go use the free hand wey Rome law give the Jew people take talk about Christian religion for Rome court.		Paul would use the protection that Roman law gave to the Jewish faith as he defended Christianity before Roman authorities.
Hannah tell everything wey dey im mind. E come promise sey: ' O wey get army, if you pity your servant condition and remember me, come give me pikin, pikin wey be boy, I go carry am give you make e dey your house until e die, and I no go let any razor touch im head. '		Hannah poured out her soul to God and vowed: " O of armies, if you look upon the affliction of your servant and remember me and you do not forget your servant and give to your servant a male child, I will give him to all the days of his life, and no razor will touch his head. "
But e still get other better things wey we go gain if we " stop to " vex.		But there are also practical benefits to ' letting go ' of anger.
Eph. 4: 1; Philem.		Rather, he appealed to them.
But Jesus no drive Peter comot. Instead, e tell am wetin help am, and e even send am go help other people. - John 21: 16.		Rather than reject Peter, Jesus encouraged him and even commissioned him to strengthen his brothers. - John 21: 16.
But before Jesus go destroy dem, e get one big work wey e go do.		Before executing judgment, however, Sprout has a great work to accomplish.
So make we ready to help people wey their person die. And make their mind come down, until dem no too dey feel am again. - Read 1 Thessalonians 3: 7.		Fellow Christians can be a source of profound comfort for someone for as long as it takes him or her to deal with grief. - Read 1 Thessalonians 3: 7.
Why We No De Tire to Preach		Why We " Keep Bearing Much Fruit "
Make Wuna Light Shine " Make People Praise		Let Your Light Shine " to Glorify
E no good make dem force each other but make their body first move dem to do am.		Sexual relations should never be forced or demanded but should come naturally.
Why we need to learn how to control ourself as part of the " new character "?		Why is self - discipline an important part of " the new personality "?
If we want make our conscience de work well, make we allow things wey they fit guide us for Bible de direct us.		For example, he taught that resentment can lead to violence and that lust can lead to adultery.
Why e no easy for the Bible Students to preach well for World War I?		What challenges did the Bible Students need to overcome during World War I?
And some of the food na food wey tell im people make dem no eat. But Daniel no want " dirty imself with the king food. " - Dan.		In fact, food and drink soon became an issue because Daniel did not want to " defile himself with the king 's delicacies. " - Dan.
And we go still see sey the way e dey rule na im better pass.		Consider, for example, what the Scriptures tell us about the rightfulness of 's sovereignty.
Before Jesus select im apostle dem, ' e pray to God from night go reach morning. '		Before Jesus selected his apostles, " he spent the whole night in prayer to God. "
Better example of people wey control theirself dey Bible.		What Bible examples underscore the value of controlling our reactions?
Bible tell us sey make we no dey miss our meeting. ( Heb.		The Bible directs us to attend meetings regularly.
But Bible talk sey Israel people ' dey two side. '		Still, those Israelites were " limping between two different opinions. "
But e never finish o.		But is that all that is required to gain God 's approval?
But e still dey show sey e get ' the peace wey God dey give. ' - Phil.		But he was still showing that " the peace of God " was with him. - Phil.
But e try use phone preach to one woman wey e sabi.		But she called an acquaintance and made a brief presentation.
But like Paul, dem no shake.		Yet, like Paul, they stood firm and continued preaching.
But na for 1946 I come really understand wetin I dey learn from Bible.		But it wasn 't until 1946 that I really understood Bible truth.
But other children fit no want baptize until dem don big small.		Others may not be ready for baptism until they are a bit older.
But we no need to worry too much.		However, there is no need for us to be consumed by anxiety.
David write sey: ' You wey dey hear prayer, na you everybody go come meet.		The psalmist David wrote: " O Hearer of prayer, to you people of all sorts will come.
Dem agree make leaders for other religion no join fight the war. Since we be special pioneer, we think sey dem no go disturb us.		As full - time ministers, we special pioneers expected to receive the same exemption as other religious ministers.
Dem no treat the prophets wey God send go meet dem well.		The cultivators went to the extreme of putting him to death.
Dem put theirself and everybody for wahala. Na im make sin and death come dey. ( Rom.		They ended, as it were, in a tragic crash, resulting in sin and death for themselves and for their future offspring.
Dem still release Antonio because e dey sick.		Antonio fell sick and was released.
E come from Brazil. Ribeiro comot for house when e still dey young.		Yet, as shown by what happened to Ribeiro from Brazil, this battle can be won.
E even comot im grandmama wey im name na Maacah from the position wey e dey because e make juju.		He even removed his grandmother Maacah from the position of " queen mother, because she had made an obscene idol. "
E fit be sey work dey hold you or you get plenty things to do or body dey always tire you.		Perhaps you need to work many hours or you have a lot to do or you always feel tired.
E get plenty new things wey we dey do now.		In recent years, there have been many exciting new initiatives.
E go still make people come join us dey serve.		This helps to make the Christian congregation attractive to others who wish to be free of conflict.
E see sey e need to stop many things wey e dey do. ( 1 Cor.		But she realized that she would have to make major adjustments.
E still want make their children born children until people full this earth.		God had in mind for their children to have children, until the human family filled the whole earth.
Felisa: Na 91 years I be now.		Felisa: I am now 91 years old.
For 2008, we start School for Congregation Elders.		The School for Congregation Elders was inaugurated in 2008.
For 2014, Stephanie and Aaron marry; and today dem dey work for Ghana branch office.		In 2014, Stephanie married Aaron, and today they serve at the Ghana branch office.
For afternoon that day, e no reach 1,000 people wey gather for one hall wey fit contain 2,500 people. Dem gather because of convention wey people want do for Cedar Point, Ohio, U.S.A.		That afternoon, fewer than 1,000 delegates gathered in the 2,500 - seat auditorium for the opening session of the Cedar Point, Ohio, U.S.A., convention.
For example, Bible sey make wife dey ' respect ' im husband well well. ( Eph.		For example, the Bible urges a wife to have " deep respect " for her husband.
For matter wey Bible law no dey, how we go take know wetin want?		Where there is no Bible law, how can we find out what would want us to do in a certain situation?
God show us the love wey big pass as e send im son to come die for us.		His greatest act of love toward mankind was that of sending Jesus to suffer and die for us.
How e go be when we go build our own house and other people own? Or when we go welcome many people wey don die come back to life again and teach dem about and the things wey e don do? ( Isa.		Consider the prospect of welcoming back millions from the dead and helping to educate them about 's ways as well as the history of his dealings with mankind.
How some of people take get wetin dem contribute?		What were some sources of contributions in times past?
If person do wetin bad well well, dem no go allow am do some kind work for congregation.		If more serious sins are involved, it may include a loss of privileges in the congregation.
If we begin dey find money and property come forget God Kingdom, we go be like person wey dey pursue breeze.		It is futile to sacrifice the pursuit of Kingdom interests in order to maintain a materialistic lifestyle.
If you learn how to breath well, you go know how to use power sing and e go make your voice loud.		You can learn to sing with power and volume by breathing properly.
If your children sabi speak your language well, e no go hard dem to talk to you about how dem feel.		Besides enabling your children to have heart - to - heart conversations with you, knowing your language gives them other advantages.
go answer that kind prayer. - Ps.		will not ignore the sincere petitions of the meek. - Ps.
Job story dey make our mind come down. Why?		Why is it comforting to reflect on the value of our faithfulness?
Korah, Dathan, and Abiram stop to dey support Moses because dem dey jealous am.		Korah, Dathan, and Abiram became jealous of Moses and opposed him.
Make una go continue una work. '		Go back to work. "
Many people for Israel support Absalom wey be David pikin when e pursue im papa comot for throne. But Hushai no follow dem.		When David 's son Absalom usurped the throne, many Israelites took Absalom 's side, but not Hushai.
Na so I take stop to go church.		So I stopped going to church.
Na that one, many young people never do.		That is something many young people have not done.
Na to find money be the number one thing for my life?		Does making money come first in my life?
Na your children be the number one Bible student wey you go ever get. Dem go get life wey no go end if ' dem come know '.		Your children are the most important Bible students you will ever have, and their " coming to know " means their eternal life.
Nadia sey, " The way people for here dey listen dey make us happy well well. "		Says Nadia, " The people we meet give us so much joy. "
No wonder, many times, we dey see people wey take better mind choose something but better thing no come out. Instead, na suffer, wahala, and other bad things dey happen. ( Prov.		That is why we so often see people make choices or decisions with all good intentions - only to have them result in suffering, disaster, or tragedy.
ONE sister for Venezuela wey im name na Venecia, talk sey: " I never think am before sey I go fit use phone preach to person. "		VENECIA, a sister in Venezuela, said: " I could never imagine myself witnessing by phone. "
One day, Peter come ask Don sey: ' Why you dey worry yourself about me?		One day, Peter asked Don: " Why do you bother with me?
One day as I de drive my red car for town, two young Witness girls greet me.		One day, while I was driving my red convertible through town, two young women waved me over.
Person wey dey vex fit give imself high blood pressure ( B.P. ), and e fit cause breathing problem.		Anger can cause such physical problems as high blood pressure and respiratory trouble.
Robert, wey we talk about before, talk sey: " After I don dey near well well, I come be better husband and better papa.		Robert, whose experience was considered at the beginning of this article, says: " After I developed a real relationship with, I was a better husband and a better father.
Since when make us, e dey see how people dey treat each other.		has observed human relations since mankind 's beginning.
So, how we go take answer Jesus question, wey be: ' Who really be the slave wey get sense and wey dem fit trust? ' ( Matt.		So how can we answer Jesus ' question: " Who really is the faithful and discreet slave? "
So, the way we translate am for New World Translation dey correct.		Thus, the rendering " undeserved kindness " in the New World Translation is fitting.
So make sure sey you " always get plenty work wey you dey do for the Lord. " - 1 Cor.		So make it your aim always to have " plenty to do in the work of the Lord. " - 1 Cor.
So that we fit get strong mind to talk sey: " Na dey help me; I no go fear.		So that we may be of good courage and say: ' is my helper; I will not be afraid.
Some people wey believe sey God dey, still believe wetin science talk about how life take start.		Some people say that they believe in evolution, but they also feel that God exists.
Tell yourself sey you no go stop to serve.		Be determined to continue serving.
The General vex well well when e tell Brother Rutherford sey Wilson, wey be U.S. President no put the law again.		In the heat of anger, General Bell said to Brother Rutherford: " That bill did not pass because [ U.S.
The angel tell Mary say God want - am make e born the Messiah.		He explained that it was God 's purpose for her to give birth to the Messiah.
The sister help me know wetin I go do and wetin I no go do. This one come help me enjoy my preaching. "		With her help, I learned what to do and what to avoid, which was very beneficial in carrying out my ministry with joy. "
The thing wey I dey put for ear wey dey help me hear well, just collect the voice of all the brothers and sisters wey dey sing and I follow dem sing.		My hearing aids picked up everyone 's voice, and I sang along.
This kind thing dey make some people dey feel sey dem useless.		In such a situation, some people lose their self - respect.
This one go make everybody for our house and for congregation happy and continue to serve.		This will help to make our home and the Kingdom Hall places where we feel happy and secure.
This one help us well well. "		That helped a lot. "
This two topic na from the letter wey Paul write to brothers wey dey Colossae for im time.		These two articles are based on Paul 's inspired counsel to the Christians in Colossae.
Wetin Satan do, come make some people think sey no be suppose rule us.		And such appreciation will draw us closer to.
Wetin dem write for the clay pot na: " E never too tey wey your servant [ wey be the person wey dey beg for help ] keep wetin e harvest. But after, Hoshayahu wey be Shobay son come collect your servant cloth.		Possibly penned for a field worker who allegedly failed to deliver a set quota of grain, this document, written on a pottery shard, says: " After your servant [ the petitioner ] had finished storing the harvest a few days ago, Hoshayahu son of Shobay came and took your servant 's garment.
Wetin fit help brother know whether e go keep beard beard?		What are some factors that may affect whether a brother wears a beard?
Wetin fit help us if something want spoil our friendship?		If a friendship is threatened, what can help to save it?
Wetin help Ribeiro stop to dey look things wey dey show naked people?		How did Ribeiro overcome his addiction to pornography?
When Barzillai dey 80 years, David tell am sey make e come dey stay for king palace.		When David asked 80 - year - old Barzillai to accept an invitation to live in the royal court, Barzillai must have been greatly honored.
When I tell my papa and mama wetin dey disturb me, dem sey make I go the School.		When I spoke with my parents about my concerns, they urged me to accept the invitation.
When Jesus dey this earth, e no leave till e die. Even though sey e come back to life for 33 C.E., e wait until 1914 before e start to rule as King. ( Acts 2: 33 - 35; Heb.		Although he passed the test of integrity here on earth and presented the value of his ransom sacrifice in 33 C.E., he had to wait until 1914 before commencing his rule.
When e don be ministerial servant, e go still get the mind to do wetin go make am fit be overseer.		First, he strives to qualify as a ministerial servant.
When we dey preaching with Mary and Chris Kanaiya for Nairobi		In the ministry in Nairobi with Mary and Chris Kanaiya
When you dey show your brothers and sisters sey you love and respect dem, you no go do things wey go bring wahala. - Rom.		Well, as you show brotherly love, tender affection, and honor, you will avoid situations that could cause anxiety. - Rom.
Which miracle Jesus do, and how that one fit don make Martha faith strong?		How might Martha 's conviction have been strengthened by what Jesus had recently done?
Which other thing we fit do to make people mind come down?		How might we provide consolation if we find it difficult to do so in person?
Why e good make we talk about all this things?		Why are such reminders needed?
Why e no be waste of time to do wetin go save you?		Why is the effort you put into your salvation worthwhile?
Yes, all of us fit learn from this sisters example.		Really, all of God 's people can benefit from considering their example.
Many people dey behave like that today.		That same spirit prevails in many parts of the world today.
Make dem trust God when people give dem trouble.		Trust in God when facing opposers.
The governing body pray about this matter and dem sofri check wetin God Word talk about am. God holy spirit come help dem see sey the brothers no need to circumcise.		Under the guidance of the holy spirit and after reasoning on the Scriptures, the responsible brothers decided that this was no longer necessary, and they wrote a letter to the congregations to that effect.
[CONTENT_REMOVED]		See paragraphs 16 - 19 )
[CONTENT_REMOVED]		See paragraph 7 )
Whether na heaven we dey go or na this earth we go stay, make all of us dey think about wetin God don promise us.		They were to keep in mind the precious hope of receiving their heavenly inheritance.
spirit enter Gideon. '		s spirit came upon Gideon.
We still de make the name of God holy when we de help people know say na only suppose " to get honor, praise, and power. " ( Rev.		Also, when we strive to help people in our territory to see that is worthy " to receive the glory and the honor and the power, " we sanctify God 's name.
If something happen wey no fit make us go, e good make we quick tell the person wey invite us.		Rather, we should accept hospitality with genuine appreciation for whatever our hosts have to offer.
If to sey Joseph see as dem take kill Jesus, you think sey na that one touch im mind?		Thus, when Joseph asked for the body, the governor " wondered whether [ Jesus ] could already be dead. "
The last one wey e talk na about people wey put mind to live for this earth wey go dey support ' Jesus brothers. ' ( Matt.		Finally, he spoke of those with an earthly hope who would support Christ 's brothers.
Na special blessing Joseph get from im papa, wey be Jacob.		Joseph had received a special blessing from his father, Jacob.
Bad things: dey teach us how to love and trust each other now. No government don fit do this one. ( Isa.		Crime: God 's Kingdom is already teaching millions to love and trust one another as no other government can.
Na im spirit apostle Paul take write wetin e tell Hebrew Christian dem for im time, e sey: ' Make una no stop to dey pray for us because we know sey we get good mind as we want make sure sey everything wey we dey do na the right thing. ' - Heb.		And he inspired the apostle Paul to write to the Hebrew Christians in the first century: " Keep praying for us, for we trust we have an honest conscience, as we wish to conduct ourselves honestly in all things. " - Heb.
Wetin servant go do ' if the one wey no dey serve God sey e want stay im own '?		What is the position of a Christian " if the unbelieving one chooses to depart "?
Wetin help am continue to fight and bear im problem till God bless am?		How did she keep contending and eventually get blessed?
Why resurrection dey important to us?		Why is the resurrection so important?
This one no be better example wey we fit follow?		Is that not a good example for us?
The bread mean Jesus body wey no get sin, wey e use as sacrifice. And the wine mean im blood.		The bread represents the sinless body of Jesus offered in sacrifice, and the wine pictures his shed blood.
Put Mind for the Spirit Make You Enjoy Life and Peace '		Setting Your Mind on the Spirit Means Life and Peace '
Your Faith Go Help You Choose Wetin Good		Exercise Faith - Decide Wisely!
When you dey meeting for Kingdom Hall, get am for mind sey if you dey answer question well, e go make brothers and sisters enjoy the meeting.		And at the meetings, never overlook the powerful effect you can have on others by raising your hand and offering upbuilding comments.
Show Sey Na Your King		Uphold 's Sovereignty!
But, we still need to do other things for dem.		But they do need practical help.
Holy spirit still help Moses fit get better character - e get love, e gentle and e dey patient. This character help am fit lead Israel people.		Holy spirit also produced in Moses beautiful qualities, such as love, meekness, and patience, that qualified him to lead the Israelites.
After dem train am for one week, we come go our circuit for Scotland.		After a week 's training, we traveled to our circuit in Scotland.
And e tell dem why e write the letter. E sey: ' I write una this small letter to encourage una, and to really let una know sey this one na God favor true true.		Explaining why, he stated: " I have written you in few words in order to encourage you and to give an earnest witness that this is the true undeserved kindness of God.
And really, e sey e no fit remember anyone wey e miss.		As far as he could recall, he never did.
As Jesus disciple, if we want happy and enjoy life, make we dey follow wetin Jesus talk.		Submitting to Jesus ' teachings as his disciples will give our life real meaning and satisfaction.
Brother Jack Redford wey be one of the brothers wey teach us for Gilead School, tell us sey e fit no easy for us when we first reach where we dey go. E sey we fit even dey worry because of how the place be, especially if poverty dey there.		One of my instructors at Gilead, Brother Jack Redford, explained to us that at first we might be disturbed, even shocked, by the conditions in our assignment, especially when coming face - to - face with severe poverty.
But e no get any time wey we go stop to love God and our neighbor.		But the need to grow in love for God and for our neighbor will never cease.
But e trust sey e go bring Isaac come life.		But he trusted that would resurrect Isaac.
But how many church people don really follow wetin e talk?		But how many have responded to this appeal?
But many times, e go give us power mek we fit dey patient and dey happy, as we dey endure.		But in most cases, he will give us strength so that we " may endure fully with patience and joy. "
But we know sey na help im servant for Bible time. na correct God.		But we do know that the God who helped his servants in amazing ways is our God,.
Dey pray for your pikin, whether dem dey with you or dem no dey.		Pray with and for your children.
Dey quick forgive people and no dey quick vex. - Eccl.		Be quick to extend mercy and slow to take offense. - Eccl.
E come dey use only small time for im work and e start to pioneer. E still think about how im and Miriam go happy, if dem go preach for where publishers no too many.		He cut back on his hours at work, began pioneering, and thought about the joy he and Miriam could have by serving where the need for Kingdom preachers is greater.
E don tey wey e start to preach and e dey preach well well.		She had been a zealous preacher of the good news since childhood.
E don tey wey some of us don dey fight this our enemy.		Some of us have been fighting these enemies for many years.
E fit no be wetin big, but dey always give us wetin we need.		It may not be spectacular, but it will always be what we need.
E go make peace dey congregation, and everybody go dey do things with one mind.		Being humble will help us to promote peace and unity in the congregation.
E no good to believe sey children suppose work to find money for their papa and mama so that dem go live big man life.		Avoid the unchristian view that children should provide their parents with a life of ease.
E still good make people wey want marry ask theirself whether dem don reach to marry because of wetin apostle Paul talk. E sey: ' If anybody think sey the way e dey behave as e never marry no good, and if e don pass the age wey im body dey push am for sex, then make this one be wetin go happen: Make e do wetin e want; e no sin.		In addition, age is a factor to consider, for the apostle stated: " If anyone thinks he is behaving improperly by remaining unmarried, and if he is past the bloom of youth, then this is what should take place: Let him do what he wants; he does not sin.
E talk say: " I almost no come Kingdom Hall that evening because I no dey happy at all.		I felt so upset that evening, " she said, " that I almost did not come to the Kingdom Hall.
E talk sey: " E no easy for me to call dem, but anytime wey I call dem, e dey make me strong. "		He admits: " It was not easy to call them, but whenever I did, I was strengthened. "
E tell dem make dem come serve again. ( 2 Chron. 19: 4 ) Jehoshaphat na king wey use all im mind serve. - 2 Chron.		Jehoshaphat was a king " who searched for with all his heart. " - 2 Chron.
Even if we pray well well or we do research, we no fit get the answer to this kind question dem.		No amount of prayer or research will reveal a complete answer to questions like these.
Even if where we dey stay far from where our children dey, we happy sey we still dey talk with dem everytime. "		Although we now live far away from our children, we are glad that we are able to have frequent conversations with them. "
Even my junior brother and sister stop to serve.		My younger brother and a sister left the truth.
Everybody for congregation know Joseph for the good things wey e dey do. The brothers come give am one name wey be ' Barnabas. '		His loving manner was well - known, and the brothers gave him the descriptive name " Barnabas " - " Son of Comfort. "
First Corinthians 2: 16 talk sey make we dey " think like Jesus. "		The Bible at 1 Corinthians 2: 16 speaks of having " the mind of Christ. "
For many place, people dey count am as normal thing to dey put hand for different different sex matter wey no clean for God eye.		In many cultures, sexual immorality became a way of life, even being incorporated into religious rites.
How the things wey you don learn from this study fit help you leave anything because of God work?		How has this article encouraged you to make sacrifices for the Kingdom?
How the two mountain and the chariot wey Zechariah see take give us hope?		How do the two copper mountains and the chariots provide encouragement for us?
How we take know sey e no bad for person to change wetin e first choose?		How do we know that changing one 's decisions might be appropriate?
How you think sey this world go be when war, sickness and death no dey?		Can you imagine a world without warfare, sickness, or death?
IF PERSON do the work wey dem give am well or show sey e get better character, we suppose praise am.		WHEN someone has done well at an assigned task or has displayed a remarkable Christian quality, he deserves praise.
If dem ask you why you no want make your children do am, you go sofri tell dem, or you go fear to talk?		Those parents may ask why your child does not get involved in such activities.
If person wey do bad want make pity for am, wetin e go do?		What might a Christian need to give up in order to continue to receive divine mercy?
If we dey talk true every time, we no need to swear before people believe us.		If we speak the truth at all times, we should not have to take an oath to make our words more believable.
If we no stop to do all this things, we dey sure sey we go see the time wey Jesus go talk sey: ' Make una come, una wey my Papa don bless, make una take the Kingdom wey God don arrange for una since when the world start. ' - Matt.		If we continue to do so, we can look forward with confidence to seeing fulfilled what Jesus said about those whom he will judge as sheep: " Come, you who have been blessed by my Father, inherit the Kingdom prepared for you from the founding of the world. " - Matt.
If you dey sure of wetin you believe and you prepare well, e go dey hungry you to tell other people about. - Jer.		When your conviction is strong and you are well - prepared, you will feel impelled to give a witness for 's name. - Jer.
If you dey the congregation wey new person join, wetin you fit do to make am enjoy am?		On the other hand, if you are not moving, how might you make the change easier for newcomers?
Instead, e de use e time serve.		Instead, I 'm investing time and energy in spiritual goals. "
give Solomon one special work. E want make Solomon direct how dem go take build temple for Jerusalem.		SOLOMON was instructed to oversee one of the most important construction projects of all time - that of the temple in Jerusalem.
dey give us holy spirit when we dey meeting.		We receive the help of God 's holy spirit.
no dey block problem make e no reach our side. Joseph story show sey this one na true.		That does not prevent his servants from being tested is illustrated by the account of Joseph.
still dey use angels protect and help im people. ( Mal. 3: 6; Heb.		As in Zechariah 's day, of armies still uses his angels to protect and strengthen his people.
Jesus copy im Father example.		Jesus imitated his Father 's example.
Joseph get strong mind. When Potiphar wife want make e sleep with am, Joseph no gree.		Consider the courage Joseph showed when Potiphar 's wife tempted him to commit sexual immorality.
Make we continue to dey fight the sin wey dey our body and anything wey fit make us tire to serve. - 2 Cor.		And we must constantly fight against our fleshly weaknesses and discouragement. - 2 Cor.
Make we do everything to make sure sey house clean!		Wickedness in any form does not belong in our spiritual paradise.
My wife come from one area wey dem dey call Naryn Region for Kyrgyzstan.		Mairambubu comes from the Naryn Region of Kyrgyzstan.
Na so e still be for servant wey dey prison. If dem give you chance for there, make you dey preach. mind dey sweet am for wetin you dey do. ( Prov.		If you are imprisoned because of your faith, you likely speak about the truth as circumstances permit, and that makes 's heart rejoice.
Noah example fit help us.		By way of illustration, consider the example of Noah.
One elder wey don help many refugee talk sey: ' E good make we no waste time before we tell dem sey we be Witness. Make dem know sey the main thing wey carry us go meet dem na to help dem learn about, no be to dash dem things.		It is important to make clear right away that we are 's and that our primary mission is to help them spiritually, not materially, " notes an elder who has helped many refugees.
One way na to write different different verse for Bible wey show how wetin dey this verse go take happen. And to arrange dem as e take happen one by one.		One way would be to prepare a time line. It could list key scriptures that show how God bit by bit shed light on the individuals and arrangement referred to in this verse and that prove that the prophecy will be fulfilled.
One way to show sey we dey treat stranger well, na to dey greet dem when dem come our meeting.		We can show kindness to newcomers from a foreign background by warmly greeting them at the Kingdom Hall.
Our good character go be like light wey dey shine, so that people go see am and dem go praise holy name.		By performing righteous deeds, we let our light shine and thus bring glory to 's name.
Papa and mama wey get better sense dey sitdown study Bible and follow wetin e talk, and dey respect God name.		Parents with practical wisdom spend hours learning and applying 's standards, thus fearing his name.
Paul explain am, e talk sey: ' God favor dey train us to comot eye for things wey God no like and things wey this world like and make we dey live with sense and dey do good and dey hold God tight even though sey we dey this world. ' - Titus 2: 11, 12.		Paul explained: " The undeserved kindness of God. trains us to reject ungodliness and worldly desires and to live with soundness of mind and righteousness and godly devotion amid this present system of things. " - Titus 2: 11, 12.
Remember say e don threaten say e go punish the people with " whip wey e get chuku - chuku. " But now, e no fit do anything to this people wey they separate theirself.		What would people think of the king who threatened to punish his subjects " with scourges " yet soon yielded to this flagrant rebellion?
So make you dey happy dey do your work.		So be happy in your work.
Still think about wetin happen to Amnon because of wetin e do. ( 2 Sam.		Think, too, of the course Amnon took and the terrible outcome of his behavior.
That time, na Brother Rutherford de direct our work for the whole world.		Rutherford, who was overseeing the worldwide preaching work.
The Law help dem to dey handle family matter and other things the way want. And na the Law still direct dem go reach when Messiah come. ( Gal.		It helped God 's people to keep righteous principles in mind in handling family matters and other concerns while it served as a guardian leading to the Messiah.
The World Book Encyclopedia talk sey freedom na " when person fit choose wetin e want and do am. "		The World Book Encyclopedia defines freedom as " the ability to make choices and to carry them out. "
The thing wey go help you na to know well.		The key is to have accurate knowledge of him.
The truth be sey, after 12 months wey dem do this preaching, about 82 publishers for Turkey come be regular pioneer.		In fact, the number of regular pioneers in Turkey increased by 24 percent during the 12 months following the campaign.
The visitor come ask am, " Why you come dey collect the big silver coins?		Then why do you take the silver coin? " the visitor asked.
This kind thing never happen to you before?		Have you had the pleasure of being invited to someone 's home?
This one give me peace of mind as I don dey among brothers again.		I felt as if I had come home spiritually.
This topic talk why e good to plan wetin you want use your life do for. E still talk why e good make preaching dey among the things wey go dey your mind pass.		This article gives reasons for setting spiritual goals early in life and for giving priority to the field ministry.
Two of dem sey dem want make we go even though sey we no go dey around to help dem.		They both wanted us to go, even though they would be without our help.
Two stick wey dem join together ( Eze 37 ), July		Most Useful Comparison ( beliefs with Bible ), No. 4
We fit dey find person wey go show us sey e like us. And we fit no even care about who the person be so far e get our time.		We may even become so desperate for emotional support that we will accept attention from just about anyone.
We no need to give refugee plenty money to show sey we dey help dem. Wetin dem need pass na our time and love.		Giving refugees practical help requires, not a lot of money, but mainly our time and concern.
We still dey invite some brothers and sisters for the area to come follow us chop and we dey go out together.		We also invited local friends to join us for meals and excursions.
Wetin get for mind for human being?		What is 's purpose for mankind?
Wetin Paul talk sweet the people well well. E come dey hungry dem to hear more.		His argument impressed them, and they wanted to hear more.
Wetin this family do still help dem know the brothers name quick quick.		This also helped the family to learn new names more quickly.
Wetin we fit do so that our character go dey better?		the way we strive to improve our personality?
When I go one circuit assembly for India for 1948		I attended a circuit assembly in India in 1948
When e no dey use am, make e comot the whole bullet, go lock am keep for where person no go see am. E fit even loose am keep.		When not in use, though, such weapons are best kept unloaded, perhaps even disassembled, and safely locked away.
When papa and mama dey patient with their pikin, small small, the pikin go dey sabi the truth wey dey Bible. ( Eph.		With patient teaching from their parents, children will be able gradually to begin to grasp " the breadth and length and height and depth " of faith.
Which kind bad things dey happen for where you dey live, and how e dey affect you and your family?		What kind of wrong activities are common where you live, and how are you and your family affected?
Why e be sey na only fit help us endure?		Why is the best one to help us endure?
Why e good make papa and mama no take their pikin question play?		Why is it important to take a child 's questions seriously?
Why we fit trust wetin Jesus talk for Matthew 6: 33?		Why can we have confidence in Jesus ' assurance recorded at Matthew 6: 33?
Zechariah come ask sey, ' wetin be this? '		What are these?
So this one show sey, true true, this world go soon end.		The system 's end is a certainty.
Which question dem we go talk about for this topic?		What questions will be answered in this article?
Dan.		Not at all!
But person fit forgive im husband or wife wey sleep with another person, the way Hosea take forgive im wife, Gomer, wey dey follow man.		Of course, a person might choose to forgive an adulterous but repentant mate, even as the prophet Hosea apparently forgave his immoral wife, Gomer.
If we de think say " great tribulation " still far and e no go meet us, we no go use every chance wey we get preach the good news. ( Matt.		Obviously, if we believe that the " great tribulation " is a long way off, that it will come sometime but not in our lifetime, we will lack a sense of urgency with regard to the preaching work.
Person fit still fall for sex matter if e travel leave house because of work, or when man and woman dey work together for working place.		Morally dangerous situations may also come up when a Christian is away from home on a business trip or when a Christian has to work with someone of the opposite sex.
For dem to pity for the person, dem need to see sey wetin the person do really pain am and e ready to change.		A sinner must be repentant if he is to receive mercy.
Wetin make send some angel go Sodom?		Why did send angels to Sodom?
Wetin make David continue to dey put body down?		What helped David remain humble?
want make we respect the laws wey government give us, if the laws no dey against the laws for Bible.		And he expects us to obey the laws of human governments as long as those laws do not conflict with his standards.
Prov. 27: 20 ) The world dey make different different things wey fit enter person eye and some of dem fine well well.		The world offers every kind of material thing, from the superb to the absurd, some of which look very enticing.
Pet. 4: 7 ) As elders dey try make dem fit dey do this things, dem go be example for all of us and our faith go be like their own. - 1 Pet.		As elders prove to be " examples to the flock, " we can learn from them and " imitate their faith. " - 1 Pet.
That favor wey God show bring better things for everybody.		And that undeserved kindness has resulted in good for all mankind.
And after the sister for central Europe come be Witness, e marry one brother from another tribe. Before, e no like people from that tribe.		And after becoming one of 's, the sister in central Europe married a brother from an ethnic group she formerly hated.
Wetin be the better things wey we fit learn from Shebna story?		What important lessons can we learn from Shebna 's experience?
And e dey help us ' wear the new character like cloth. ' - Col.		In its place, we " clothe [ ourselves ] with the new personality. " - Col.
And e no make am think sey e no need God again. even talk sey Job na im " servant, " and e dey do the correct thing.		Yet, despite all of this, Job did not develop a lofty view of himself or feel that he did not need God.
And the things wey happen because of wetin e do, bad well well.		Again, the results were tragic.
Any of our brothers follow fight the war, wey come make vex?		And did some of our brothers during that period compromise their Christian neutrality and thereby incur 's displeasure?
As slave life be for the Jews wey dey Babylon that time, God people wey Bible call ' king and priest, ' no fit dey worship together as e suppose be.		As was the case in the earlier Babylonian exile, the anointed " royal priesthood " could not function in an organized way.
As you dey see how all this verse take join to make wetin God don talk happen, you go really know sey true true, ' na holy spirit ' help all the people wey write Bible. - 2 Pet.		As you see the scriptures form a harmonious unit, you will surely conclude that the Bible prophets and writers must have been " moved by holy spirit. " - 2 Pet.
Bible tell us about people wey no control theirself for sex matter.		The Bible gives warning examples of individuals who lacked self - control concerning sexual conduct.
But, e use all im mind give the ' two small coins, ' wey be all the money wey e get.		Yet, she voluntarily contributed those " two small coins, " which were " all the means of living she had. "
But, sometimes person fit talk wetin no be straight lie to deceive another person.		However, wants his people to go beyond not telling outright lies.
But because we love our brothers and sisters, we no go do wetin go worry dem for mind. Instead, we go first think about how dem go feel. - 1 Cor.		Love moves us to put others ' interests ahead of our own, even when that means putting aside what we may feel is a legal right. - 1 Cor.
But e really pain am when e see im pikin.		Even so, it was an emotionally difficult situation for father and daughter - a real sacrifice for both of them.
But make we use example show wetin fit cause that kind quarrel.		But for the sake of illustration, consider the following possibility.
But their own fit no reach David own.		Few people have been treated as badly as David was.
But we dey hide make dem no see us.		Taking great care to avoid detection, we met whenever we could.
But we know sey dem bring Jesus come back to life.		However, we know that Jesus was resurrected.
But when make - am clear say make e people no do partial, Peter preach to one Roman soldier wey e name na Cornelius.		But after God made it clear that Christians should not be partial, Peter preached to Cornelius, a Roman soldier.
Dem fit accept wetin you talk.		They will likely be more inclined to respect your views.
Dem happy to see sey you dey try endure and sey you still dey side.		They are happy to see that you are able to endure and remain loyal to.
Dem still write letter go branch office for Canada and Ghana.		They also wrote to the branch in Canada and to the branch in Ghana.
Dem want comot hand from fake religion kpatakpata!		They wanted no further dealings with false religion!
E be like gas wey we no fit see or smell, and wey fit kill person.		Some equate propaganda with " lies, distortion, deceit, manipulation, mind control, [ and ] psychological warfare " and associate it with " unethical, harmful, and unfair tactics. " - Propaganda and Persuasion.
E don help me for different different way, and that one don make me sabi am pass before.		My life is full of happy moments, exciting experiences, and generous blessings! "
E fit be about alcohol.		Consider the use of alcoholic beverages.
E talk sey: " I give dem hand!		Hats off to these, " he wrote.
Elders for congregation that time make mistake and na so e still be with elders today. No wonder Bible talk sey ' all of us dey make mistake many times. '		As was true in the first century, there are no perfect elders in the modern - day Christian congregation, " for we all make mistakes many times. "
Even with that one, apostle Paul advise dem sey ' make dem get one mind wey agree with the Lord own. ' ( Phil.		Yet, the apostle Paul encouraged them " to be of the same mind in the Lord. "
For example, e de use the things wey people like to fool them.		For example, he uses bait to lure them into doing things his way.
For example, e dey forgive us when we sin. And this one dey make us happy.		Are we not happy that our sins can be forgiven?
For example, song number 1 go reach 12 dey talk about. Song number 13 go reach 20 dey talk about Jesus and im sacrifice.		For example, the first 12 songs relate to, the next 8 songs are about Jesus and the ransom, and so on.
For person to lie, e don talk wetin no be true.		To lie is to say something untruthful.
For the next topic, we go learn sey this four king do mistake.		As we will see in the next article, the four kings whom we have considered all made mistakes.
Help am know sey for Job time, wetin dem take dey see far ( telescope ) no dey.		Bring up the fact that Job lived long before telescopes and spaceships.
How life go be when bad condition no dey again?		What will life be like when distressing conditions are gone?
How the brothers feel when the letter reach their hand?		The result?
How the story wey Jesus talk take show sey want make we dey forgive people?		In his illustration of the king settling accounts, how did Jesus make it clear that expects us to be forgiving?
How we fit show sey we dey support if dem disfellowship person?		How can you show respect for 's arrangement for discipline?
How we go take know sey na dem dey use?		And how would Christians be able to recognize his representatives?
I really learn better things from dem. That time, we come open one business.		Association with them really left an impression on me.
If na the second one happen, the IUD fit stop am make e no grow.		In the latter case, the presence of the IUD could interfere with the fertilized egg 's implanting in the lining of the womb and progressing as a normal pregnancy would.
If to sey dem no bring Jesus come life, we for no get hope sey we go see our people wey die again.		Had he not been raised, none of us would have any prospect of seeing our dead loved ones again.
If we get am for mind to stand for and our brothers side, we no go begin do amebo.		Loyalty to and to our brothers will protect us from making such a mistake.
Instead, make we put mind for the better things wey we get. And make we use better mind wait for the better things wey dey front.		Rather than lose our joy, we can focus on the good things we have now and wait patiently for the better things ahead.
Instead make dem trust, dem come dey fear, dey complain about Moses.		Instead of trusting in, they became fearful and murmured against Moses.
go still forgive me. '		will forgive me. '
Jesus talk sey: ' Any man wey dey look woman sotey e want sleep with am, that man don already sleep with am for im heart.		Jesus stated: " Everyone who keeps on looking at a woman so as to have a passion for her has already committed adultery with her in his heart.
Jesus warn im disciple about this matter reach four times for this Sermon on the Mount because e love dem. - Matt.		Jesus was so concerned for his disciples that he warned them about this dangerous tendency four more times in his sermon. - Matt.
Life dey tire the sister, and e still dey get serious headache wey dem dey call migraine.		Understandably, she has sometimes found it difficult to attend congregation meetings.
Make we dey ' dress like [ people ] wey dey fear God. ' ( 1 Tim.		We should dress " in the way that is proper for [ people ] professing devotion to God. "
Many times, people wey dey vex anyhow no dey gree forgive.		People who fail to control their emotions often become bitter.
Na good example e show all of us.		He thereby set the example for all his followers.
Na that day, Abraham and Sarah and all the people wey dey im house cross Euphrates River, and dem enter the Land wey God promise dem.		That was when he and Sarah along with their household crossed the Euphrates River and entered the Promised Land.
Na this one make dem put am for high position for Babylon. And when Medo - Persia people take over Babylon, dem still put am for high position. ( Dan.		As a result of divine favor, Daniel was made a high official under both Babylonian and Medo - Persian rule.
Na wetin e still dey do for us today.		The same is true today.
On top that one, e still send im Son make e come die for us, so that we go get life wey no go end. - Read Psalm 84: 11; Romans 8: 32.		Why, he even gave his precious Son so that we could have the prospect of endless life! - Read Psalm 84: 11; Romans 8: 32.
Our enemy fit come fight us, when we no think am. Dem fit come when we no even get power at all, so make we ready our self every time.		Our enemies may attack us when we least expect it and kick us when we are at our lowest point, so we must ever remain alert.
People from Judea and Galilee no de too respect Samaritan people. And they no want do things with them. - John 4: 9.		Both Judeans and Galileans had little respect for the Samaritans and avoided them. - John 4: 9.
Put eye for the better character wey e get. And thank am for the better things wey e dey do.		Focus on his or her good qualities, and express appreciation for your mate.
Riana dey use Tandroy language give talk		Riana giving a talk in the Tandroy language
Satan de use this demons wey e don organize to control all government for this earth.		By means of his spirit organization, Satan exerts authority over all human governments.
Show brothers and sisters sey you love dem ( Check paragraph 17 )		Show love for the brothers and sisters ( See paragraph 17 )
Sometimes, insect dey disturb us.		At times, we were bothered by insects.
Tell dem mek dem remember you for their prayer.		Ask them to pray for you.
The apostles do something about the matter quick - quick.		The apostles quickly rectified matters by appointing qualified men to handle the food distribution.
The elders tell the husband make e do as Jesus do.		The elders urged the husband to imitate Jesus.
The first day wey e start preaching, e ask me sey: ' Abeg you fit help me with the people wey I dey study Bible with? '		On his first day in field service, he asked me, ' Could you help me with my Bible studies? '
The freedom wey God spirit dey give pass the freedom wey person wey dem free as slave get.		The freedom that is associated with the spirit of, however, is more than liberation from physical slavery.
The music dey make am hungry us to sing, and prepare our mind for wetin we want learn.		These orchestral arrangements are composed in such a way that they will prepare our heart and mind for the program to follow.
The work wey Jesus do for 1919, be like the work wey God people do for the temple that time. Na that year Jesus comot people from fake religion hand ( Babylon the Great ).		In modern times, Jesus ' building work involved liberating true worshippers from Babylon the Great and restoring the Christian congregation in 1919.
Their name na John and Judith. For 30 years wey don pass, dem don travel go do work for different country.		Consider John and Judith, who for the past 30 years have served in a number of countries.
Think of King Josiah.		Consider the example of King Josiah.
This one show for the way e take correct Israel people everytime wey dem leave am go serve another god.		This is evident in the way he disciplined the Israelites, who repeatedly abandoned true worship.
This three example go make you strong to fit do wetin want.		See how these examples can build you up.
To even see seat sitdown na wahala. But e manage to see seat.		He barely manages to find a seat in the packed auditorium.
We fit even feel sey we no reach to get any better thing from.		We may even doubt that we qualify to receive any kind of reward.
We go come understand how take forgive our sin.		This will help us to understand how can forgive us.
We go still learn wetin some young people talk about this two things: ( 1 ) Why e no easy to wear any part of the dress wey Paul talk about, and ( 2 ) how person go gain if e wear - am.		As we do, take note of what some young ones have to say about the challenges and the benefits of wearing each piece of spiritual armor.
We wey get life and wey survive reach the time wey the Lord go dey around, no go fit go before the people wey don already sleep for death. Because the Lord imself go come down from heaven, and e go shout with command. And people wey be Christ own wey don die go first rise.		We the living who survive to the presence of the Lord will in no way precede those who have fallen asleep in death; because the Lord himself will descend from heaven with a commanding call,. and those who are dead in union with Christ will rise first.
Wetin we fit do to make sure sey peace dey?		How far should we be willing to go to maintain peace with our brothers?
When Samuel reach Gilgal, e correct Saul for wetin e do.		When Samuel arrived in Gilgal, he rebuked Saul.
When dem release this people, plenty of dem come Kyrgyzstan. Some of dem carry God word enter Kyrgyzstan.		When these exiles were released, many came to Kyrgyzstan, and some of them brought the truth with them.
When we open our mouth well and we sing come out, our voice go loud. - w17.11, p.		When we open our mouth wide and sing out, we are able to sing louder. - w17.11, p.
When we think about the better example wey we follow as we dey grow, we come tell our self sey we ready to do anything wey organization sey make we do.		After considering the fine examples we had grown up with, we decided to make ourselves available for anything 's organization invited us to do.
Which better things God friend go enjoy for front?		What is in store for friends of God?
Which other problem some of dem don face?		What further challenges have some faced?
Why e be sey na suppose be King for heaven and earth?		Why is the rightful Sovereign of the universe?
Your mind fit tell you sey if you talk to am about the matter, una no go be friend again.		You might be tempted to reason that pointing out his wrong would damage your friendship.
for person to know the holy things wey dem write?		know the holy writings?
Cor.		Stop seeking a release. "
We value this freedom because we fit use am show how we love am reach.		We treasure this gift because it allows us to make decisions that reveal to how much we love him.
But, e no mean sey God play you wayo if no be heaven you dey go.		You will, however, not be shortchanged if God has given you a different prospect.
When Emperor Nero start to rule, e talk sey no be every matter e go judge by imself.		Roman Emperor Nero had said at the beginning of his reign that he would not judge all cases himself.
Acts 8: 14; Gal.		Still, they worked well together.
Na im Paul come write about Jesus sey God give am praise and honor because e suffer come die. So because of God favor e fit die for everybody. ( Heb.		So Paul wrote concerning Jesus that he is " now crowned with glory and honor for having suffered death, so that by God 's undeserved kindness he might taste death for everyone. "
Many people don see better thing wey dem go talk for the brochure wey be, When Someone You Love Dies.		Many have found comforting thoughts to share from the brochure When Someone You Love Dies.
You dey allow wetin you dey learn make you strong?		Do you eagerly seek to gain strength from that type of education?
Somethings dey wey you get right to do, but e fit worry the conscience of your brother. You go dey ready to leave this things?		Would you be willing to forgo things that are within your right if you could thus avoid stumbling a brother whose conscience differs from yours?
How mature Christian de treat people?		In what way is demonstrating love for others related to Christian maturity?
dey always do things wey go help us.		Everything God does benefits others.
How Hezekiah take show wetin really dey im mind?		How did Hezekiah reveal what was in his heart?
Why Samuel and im wife carry their children go congregation wey dey use the language of their new place?		Why did one immigrant couple move their family to a local - language congregation?
Which advice dey Ephesians 4: 1 - 3?		What counsel is mentioned at Ephesians 4: 1 - 3?
Gal. 3: 24, 25 ) For some culture, if man keep beard beard wey clean and wey dem shape well, dem fit no see am as bad thing.		In some cultures, a neatly trimmed beard may be acceptable and respectable, and it may not detract at all from the Kingdom message.
One thing wey this one mean be sey, make the husband or the wife ' no separate wetin God don join. '		This also means that neither a husband nor a wife should ' put apart what God has yoked together. '
Sofri listen to dem when dem dey tell you their mind. But, no follow dem talk about politics.		Listen patiently to their concerns, but do not discuss politics.
Like Noah, make we get strong faith and trust God sey e go soon stop the bad things wey dey happen.		Like Noah, we need strong faith, trusting that God will soon intervene.
Make we still ask ourself sey, ' I dey change the way I dey think so that I go fit make happy? ' ( Eph.		We also need to ask, ' Do I continue to be made new in my dominant mental attitude? '
Luke 6: 29 ) * But, e go even better if we no do wetin go make us enter thief hand.		The best strategy, of course, is prevention.
Who we suppose obey pass?		Where does our primary loyalty lie?
Which other thing go help us get wetin God promise?		Having what qualities will help us to win the prize?
When you dey think about wetin don happen to you, you fit come dey ask why let am happen.		As you look back, maybe you are left wondering why allowed certain things to happen.
And anytime wey you want make God help you for any matter, tell am for prayer.		And when you need God 's help, pray to him about the matter.
And then e talk sey: " Tabitha, get up! "		Then, he said: " Tabitha, rise! "
As people wey dey serve, the one mind wey we get no dey surprise us.		As 's people, we are not surprised at the unity we enjoy.
As we talk before, many many people for this world don start to dey study Bible. And dem don dey learn about all the better better things wey God talk sey e go do.		In addition, as noted above, thousands of people around the globe have begun to study the Bible and to learn of the expressions of God 's purpose.
Before David baptize, e like to condemn people and de talk anyhow to e family people.		Before dedicating his life to God, he was often critical of others and used harsh language with his family.
Body sweet me because I never use boat travel before.		I had never sailed before, so I was excited.
But as time de pass, David change. E come see say e good make e de make peace with people.		In time, David saw the need to change and become peaceable.
But as time dey go, I come dey learn about many of dem for meeting, family worship or my personal study.		Over time, many of these were addressed at meetings or during family or personal study.
But as time dey go, I no come dey think like that again.		But as time went by, I did not feel that way anymore.
But e come be like sey one wahala wey pass im power dey. Wetin be that?		But there was what seemed to be a hurdle that could not be overcome.
But e talk sey e go change. "		But now she had decided to give up this habit. "
But now wey I don join am dey pioneer, two of us dey work for. "		Now that I too am pioneering, we both work for the same Person,. "
Chris tell am sey e get one topic wey Bible dey always talk about. E still tell Gavin sey, if e fit sabi this topic, that one go help am fit know about our meeting pass as e know before.		Chris told Gavin that there is an important message discussed throughout the Bible and that learning about this message would help him understand the meetings better.
Dem come choose sey dem no go do wetin talk.		They decided to disobey God.
Dem never many like this before. * Witness people dey among dem.		Among these are thousands of 's.
Dem still change some word wey dem no dey too use for English again. For example, dem no too dey use the word " shall " today.		For example, the word " shall " is not widely used today, so it has been replaced.
E come use im mind return the money wey e collect from people. And e stop to put eye for wetin no be im own.		He gladly gave up his ill - gotten riches and abandoned his greed for material things.
E dey sweet us to ' serve with the better things ' wey we get. And we still dey happy sey dem dey use all this things wey we dey contribute well, dem dey use am support the work wey dey important pass for this life! - Prov.		How thrilling it is to " honor with [ our ] valuable things " and to see how such resources are used faithfully and discreetly to do the greatest work in human history! - Prov.
E do wetin e promise for Bible sey e go take care of children wey no get papa.		has lived up to his promise to care for fatherless children.
E get many things wey mek God tell us sey mek we no dey do things wey people for this world dey do.		There are many reasons why God tells us to be neutral.
E get one day wey e drink well well, e come vex sotey e kill im girlfriend.		While in his teens, he began to abuse alcohol and, as a result, turned aggressive.
E get one time wey God angel tell Daniel sey: " You wey be special person, make you get peace, and make you dey strong. " - Dan.		At one point, an angelic messenger urged Daniel, that " very precious man, " to " have peace " and " be strong. " - Dan.
E get people wey love wey die. Some of dem na Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, Moses, and King David. ( Num.		Our Father of tender mercies has himself experienced the loss of loved ones, such as Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, Moses, and King David.
E know how we dey feel and e dey see wetin we dey do.		He takes note of our emotions and actions.
E know sey im preaching work for this world go finish one day and other people go continue the work.		He knew that his earthly ministry would come to an end and that others would carry on his work.
E really dey surprise us when we see all the work wey God people don do for this last days.		We truly marvel at what is being accomplished by God 's people in these exciting times in which we live.
E talk sey: ' Wetin dey make me happy pass na to see the people wey I teach Bible as dem dey do well for truth. This people just be like my children.		The greatest joy I have received, " she states, " is to see my spiritual children ' go on walking in the truth. '
Eliphaz and Bildad talk sey no matter wetin we do to serve God, God no go ever happy with us. Dem still talk sey for God eye, we no better pass butterfly, maggot, or worm.		These false comforters claimed that our efforts to serve loyally are of no benefit to him at all, that our value to God is no more than that of a moth, a maggot, or a worm.
For April 1951, government pursue many Witness people from western USSR ( Union of Soviet Socialist Republics ) go Siberia.		In April 1951, the authorities began sending from the western USSR to Siberia into exile.
For any of this thing wey we just talk so, na we go choose wetin we go do.		In each of these situations, we must decide what we will do.
For example, dem sell their house and property make dem fit see money support their pioneer work.		They decided to sell their home and goods to fund their full - time ministry.
God use love and e sofri talk to im people.		He spoke to his people in a kind, gentle, and caring way.
How e go take help us?		How does he do that?
How the three things wey Jesus talk for Matthew 18: 15 - 17 fit help us settle quarrel?		How can the three steps outlined at Matthew 18: 15 - 17 be used to resolve some conflicts?
How we go take use sense preach to people wey be refugee?		How can we show wisdom when preaching to refugees?
How you fit copy Hezekiah as you dey serve God?		How can you imitate Hezekiah as you serve God?
I still dey go church well well.		I still went to church regularly.
If we no do wetin we promise, e fit make am vex for us.		The way we treat our vows affects our relationship with.
If you dey behave well, your character go help your family people see sey Witness people dey enjoy their marriage. Dem go still see sey dem dey take care of their children, dem dey live clean life, dey do things wey God like, and dem dey happy.		By your example, let your relatives see that 's enjoy happy marriages, look after their children, and live a clean, moral, and fulfilling life.
If you love, wetin e go make you do for am?		How does making plans involve your heart?
Irene talk sey: ' I get other things for mind to do before. But I no think sey any of dem for make me happy like this one. '		Irene says, " When I think of other goals I could have pursued, I can 't imagine one that would have brought me more joy. "
people value Bible well well because dem know sey na God holy book.		S servants highly esteem God 's own holy book, the Bible.
go help you. - Read 1 Peter 5: 10.		will help you. - Read 1 Peter 5: 10.
make us to dey happy as we dey serve am.		We have been created in such a way that we find happiness in doing so.
Later, many people wey get hope to live for paradise come join dem. Na this people be " Joseph " stick. The two group of people come be one, and Bible call dem " one group of sheep. " ( John 10: 16; Zech.		Then, as more and more of those with the earthly hope - symbolically like the stick " for Joseph " - joined the anointed, the two groups became " one flock. "
Make Christian let wetin dem learn from Bible help dem know wetin to do if government worker do something for dem		Christians must use their Bible - trained conscience when dealing with government officials
Make each of wuna go e house back, because na me cause the thing wey e don happen. " - 1 Ki.		Each one of you must return to his house, for I have caused this to happen. " - 1 Ki.
Make una listen to am. ' ( Deut.		You must listen to him.
Many people wey dey congregation wey dey use another langauge don see sey to dey study Bible every time for ' their own language ' good well well.		Many among those serving in a foreign - language field find it beneficial to study the Bible regularly in the ' language of their birth. '
Money and property.		Materialism.
Na January 30, 1954 we come marry after nine month.		We got married nine months later - on January 30, 1954.
Na for Service Department I first work.		I was first assigned to work in the Service Department.
Na if we know well and dey do wetin we learn.		The key, once again, is to have accurate knowledge of and to let that knowledge guide us in every aspect of life.
Nicholas and im wife, wey im name na Deborah, dey translate sign - language for branch office wey dey Britain.		All four sons serve as elders.
One man wey talk about this work wey Witness people dey do, talk sey: " Wetin dey their mind na to preach and to teach.		When speaking of the work of 's, one researcher stated: " The main goal is preaching and teaching.
One special part for our assembly and convention na the talk for people wey want baptize.		The talk presented especially for such ones is a highlight of every assembly and convention.
Peter get one small book wey e take dey write things about imself.		Peter continued to maintain a clean appearance.
Robert no know wetin be the problem until e marry.		Robert himself did not perceive what was wrong until later when he got married.
SONG: 125, 88		SONGS: 125, 88
So, e good make we quick go meet our brothers wey be refugee as dem just come.		Therefore, it is urgent to meet our refugee brothers as soon as possible after their arrival.
So, person wey dey serve with all im mind no dey pretend dey serve am.		So a person who serves with his whole heart does not render hypocritical service.
So, whether e don tey wey we dey serve or we just start, make all of us continue to fight any thing wey fit make us stop to serve, so that e go bless us.		No matter how long we have been serving, all of us must fight against things that might hinder our service to God, who rewards the faithful.
So dem dey gather near river for outside the city dey worship.		In fact, the Jewish worshippers need to gather outside the city gates beside a river.
So e good make you believe sey dey correct person well.		So have faith in 's discipline and direction.
Some people for my family come run reach one refugee camp wey dey Malawi. The camp far pass 1,000 miles ( 1,600 km ).		Some of my family finally made it to a refugee camp in Malawi, a journey of over 1,000 miles ( 1,600 km ).
Stephen know sey na help am.		Does Stephen accept the credit for this?
That time, dem go make people see the plenty better things wey Jesus sacrifice go bring for people wey follow God.		Jesus and his corulers, who together make up God 's Kingdom, will administer the benefits of the ransom to obedient mankind over a period of a thousand years.
The ' slave ' work na to teach and direct God people. ( Matt.		God 's people were now free of the influence of Babylon the Great.
The husband don dey study Bible now and e don start to dey follow im wife go meeting.		The result? The husband accepted a Bible study and began attending meetings with his wife.
The night before dem kill Jesus, e tell im disciples sey: ' I dey give una new command, sey make una love unaself; just as I love una, make una love unaself like that.		On his last night on earth, Jesus said to his disciples: " I am giving you a new commandment, that you love one another; just as I have loved you, you also love one another.
The people gree for the money wey e sey e go pay dem.		The men he found agreed to the wage he offered and went to work.
The woman come later baptize.		The student eventually got baptized.
Think about wetin happen to Jesus before e die.		Think about what happened to Jesus during his last days on earth.
This people wey dey serve the different different god, believe sey their god dey control some things for this world.		Some of those false gods were viewed as ruling over certain parts of nature.
To fit get strong mind like Moses, brother wey don baptize go pray make help am.		A baptized brother can develop similar courage by seeking God 's help in earnest prayer and by daily reading the Bible.
To use our mouth well, make we know ( 1 ) when we suppose talk ( Eccl. 3: 7 ), ( 2 ) wetin we suppose talk ( Prov. 12: 18 ), and ( 3 ) how we suppose talk ( Prov. 25: 15 ). - w15 - E 12 / 15, pp.		To do good with our tongue, we should keep in mind ( 1 ) when to speak, ( 2 ) what to speak, and ( 3 ) how to speak. - w15 12 / 15, pp.
We go fit, if we continue to fight am.		We can do so if we keep on fighting against it.
We still arrange sey we go dey go French congregation once every month, and we dey use our holiday go French convention. "		We also set the goal of attending a meeting in French once a month, and we take advantage of our vacations to visit conventions held in our native language. "
Wendy still dey Vanuatu, dey work for the remote translation office wey dey there.		Wendy is still in Vanuatu, now serving in a remote translation office.
Wetin I see make my faith strong well well.		That experience greatly strengthened my faith.
Wetin do to help im people go back go finish im work?		How did respond to the inactivity of his people?
Wetin Satan mean be sey, things go better if human being rule theirself.		The action of Satan the Devil has raised the question of the rightfulness of 's sovereignty.
Wetin be some question wey you fit ask yourself if your husband or wife no want make you dey serve the way you want?		What questions can you ask yourself if your spouse tries to limit your worship?
Wetin dey 1 John 3: 19, 20 wey dey make our mind come down?		What comfort do we find at 1 John 3: 19, 20?
Wetin we fit learn from some of God servant wey no gree go war or put hand for politics?		What can we learn from the examples of God 's faithful servants who remained neutral?
When elders come encourage us for our house, we fit use the chance to learn better things for Bible ( Check paragraph 18, 19 )		Shepherding visits offer us the opportunity to seek wisdom from God 's Word ( See paragraphs 18, 19 )
When their money finish, e just be like sey make dem cry because dem go need to go back.		When their savings ran out, however, the couple 's joy turned to sorrow.
When we dey think about how Hezekiah take serve, you no think sey we need to remove anything for our life wey fit make us no be friend again or wey fit make us dey leave small small?		Meditating on the example of Hezekiah, we may see a need to remove something that is hindering our relationship with God or diverting our attention from true worship.
Which better things we fit enjoy because of Jesus sacrifice?		The ransom arrangement makes possible what blessings?
Why? Because the two people wey marry get sin and dey make mistake.		Each marriage is made up of two imperfect people.
Why and how don take show human being favor?		Why and how has shown undeserved kindness toward all mankind?
Why e good to put wetin dey Philippians 2: 4 for mind when we dey choose wetin we go wear?		Why should Philippians 2: 4 have a bearing on what we wear?
You go happy, no be so?		No doubt you are thrilled.
go make people fit rule for God Kingdom and enter paradise?		the rule of God 's Kingdom?
Throw all the things wey dey worry una give [ ], because e dey care for una. ' - 1 PET.		Throw all your anxiety on [ ], because he cares for you. " - 1 PET.
Na so arrange am for Bible. E want make elders handle this kind matter. ( Jas.		First, the arrangement for elders to handle cases of serious sin comes from, as outlined in his Word.
The speed wey the angel take cover the woman inside the container, really show sey this one na true.		The angel assures us of this by thrusting the lead lid back over the container.
The things wey make and the things wey e dey do show sey na really true.		All his works and actions bear witness to his love.
The letter wey apostle Peter write help brothers and sisters for im time. And e still dey help us today.		Peter 's inspired letters have continued to be a source of encouragement to Christians throughout the ages and up to this day.
E fit still mean sey the person get hope sey tomorrow go better.		It can imply having a positive and hopeful view of the future.
dey make sure sey ground dey bring plenty food. And who go sey e no like better food?		Yes, sees to it that the earth produces plenty of food, and few things make us happier than a good meal.
If we try well well to comot bad mind for people wey come from another place, e go help us get the new character. - Col.		Earnest effort to overcome prejudiced views regarding those who are of a different background will certainly help us to put on the new personality. - Col.
Make we use one example to know wetin e mean for God spirit to direct person: Person wey be businessman dey like to do business.		To clarify the expression " spiritually - minded " further, think of this comparison: An individual who is skillful in commercial affairs is said to be business - minded.
Remember sey, sometimes, apostle Peter no behave like person wey God spirit dey direct.		Remember the apostle Peter.
The book and magazine dem wey organization dey give us be like food wey sweet.		Similarly, we can savor the tasty Bible - based spiritual food that we receive from God 's organization.
E make im children no fit live life wey no go end.		He deprived his offspring of the prospect of life without end.
How ' other sheep ' take dey help dem?		How do the " other sheep " help their anointed brothers?
How we go take copy Jesus example?		How can we imitate Jesus ' example?
Wetin be the three things wey Jesus talk sey make we do? And wetin make Jesus give this advice?		What three steps did Jesus mention, and what should be our goal in applying them?
Wetin go help us fit win our fight with any bad thing wey we dey do?		How can we successfully battle against fleshly weaknesses?
Na true sey Joseph no deny sey e know Jesus, but fear no let am tell people sey im na Jesus disciple.		Joseph did not exactly disown Jesus, but neither did he have the courage to acknowledge him.
Acts 13: 22 ) But David still do bad; e sleep with Bath - sheba and e come get belly.		But David later committed adultery with Bath - sheba, and she became pregnant.
Wetin show sey make us to dey pity for people?		What shows that compassion is part of human nature?
If you do wetin dey this Bible verse, you go fit live well with people and peace go dey.		In so doing, you prevent situations from developing that could otherwise cause anxiety.
Later, e come tell brothers wey their mind no allow dem chop the meat make dem no judge people wey chop am.		Later, he instructed those with a more sensitive conscience not to judge those who chose to eat such meat.
And we no go tell politicians or show dem how dem go take do their politics. We no go still come out mek people vote for us or go vote for person.		We do not try to change governments or try to influence politicians, and we do not vote in political elections or become politicians.
Apostle Paul talk sey e good if person sey e no go marry; but, e come talk sey: ' Because people dey do sex wey no clean for God eye anyhow - anyhow, make man get im own wife and make woman get im own husband. '		The apostle Paul recommended singleness; yet, he said: " Because of the prevalence of sexual immorality, let each man have his own wife and each woman have her own husband. "
As time dey go, people no come dey understand the English wey dem use translate King James Version.		Even so, much of the wording in the King James Version became archaic over the centuries.
Bible talk sey after Jesus don rule for one thousand years, some people no go still choose as their King. ( Rev.		The Bible indicates that after the Thousand Year Reign of Christ, some people will choose to rebel against 's sovereignty.
But, Bible advise us sey make we dey control our temper.		When we are under stress or provocation, it is a real challenge to remain mild - tempered.
But, e get one group wey God dey use direct im people today. Bible call this group ' slave wey get sense and wey dem fit trust. '		Nevertheless, there is a visible group of men, " the faithful and discreet slave, " who take the lead among God 's people today.
But, e no remember when Baasha wey be king for the northern ten - tribe come fight am. Asa want make Baasha stop to build Ramah, one city wey near the side wey Asa dey rule. ( 2 Chron.		Asa relied on when a million Ethiopians came against Judah; yet, he failed to do so when Baasha the king of Israel began to fortify Ramah, a city bordering Asa 's domain.
But angels and human being no get the kind freedom wey get.		Accordingly, all creatures in heaven and on earth have freedom in only a relative sense.
But anybody wey tell people sey e no know me, me self go tell my Papa for heaven sey I no know am. ' ( Matt.		But whoever disowns me before men, I will also disown him before my Father who is in the heavens. "
Dem go build the city again, dem go build their house, make farm and find food for their family.		They had houses to restore, fields to plant, and mouths to feed.
Dem go need to read the Law everyday. Dem go write am with their own hand and ' do everything wey this Law and commandment talk. ' - Read Deuteronomy 17: 18 - 20.		They were obligated to read the Law daily, write a copy of it, and " observe all the words of this Law and these regulations by carrying them out. " - Read Deuteronomy 17: 18 - 20.
Dem let us stay for their house.		They opened their homes to us.
Dem no come dey see two - tribe kingdom or ten - tribe kingdom again.		No longer was there a division between the sons of Israel.
E bad for God servant to change wetin e first choose?		After deciding a matter, could a Christian change his mind?
E be like sey all of dem na firstborn.		Each man seems to have been a firstborn.
E continue to trust, the ' God wey dey make our mind come down anytime wey we dey wahala. '		He kept leaning on " the God of all comfort, who comforts us in all our trials. "
E fit be because of the good thing wey dem do, or because dem get level pass us.		Reasonably, we would expect that a person who is worthy of such attention and respect has done something to merit honor or that he serves in a special position.
E fit be like sey " small truth " dey wetin the person talk because e talk sey e want go take ' treatment. ' But you go talk sey the person talk true?		There may have been a grain of truth in his mentioning a " medical " appointment, but would you say that he was being honest?
E fit know how to dey control imself for some kind matter, but e never mature as Christian.		True, they may already have developed a measure of self - discipline.
E go help dem to fit take care of their family.		He will help them provide for the needs of their families.
E reach 7,000 Bible Student wey don ready for this work.		About 7,000 Bible Students prepared for action.
E still sey: " Im blood go dey for im head because e no follow the arrangement wey God put for ground to help am. "		He added: " His blood was on his own head, because he did not make use of the security God had provided for him. "
E tell me sey, " Go preach for people wey dey that side, then I go preach for this side. "		You visit the people on that side of the street, " he said, " and I 'll take this side. "
Even as e be, our brothers and sisters go like am, if we no wear cloth wey too tight or wey dey show our body.		Hence, our brothers and sisters appreciate it when we refrain from wearing clothes that are so tight or so loose that they are revealing.
Even if marriage dey sweet when e start, wetin fit happen?		Although marriage usually begins with joy, what can those who marry expect to experience?
For Jephthah time, Israel people suffer for Philistia and Ammon people hand because dem no do wetin tell dem.		In Jephthah 's day, the Israelites were oppressed by both the Philistines and the Ammonites because the Israelites had disobeyed.
For example, dem go learn new language, new law, how people for the area dey do things, how to follow time, how to pay tax and other money matter, which school dem want go and how to train pikin.		Imagine trying to learn a new language and to adapt to new laws and expectations regarding manners, punctuality, taxes, bill paying, school attendance, and child discipline - all at once!
For example, e praise the brothers for Corinth for some of the better character wey dem get.		For example, he sincerely commended the Christians in Corinth regarding some aspects of their conduct.
How Jesus go take be " the main stone for the corner of the building "?		How could Jesus become " the chief cornerstone "?
How brothers and sisters for congregation don take help you?		Give examples of how fellow believers have helped you personally.
How papa and mama fit help their children to dey control theirself?		In what ways can parents help their children to develop self - control?
How the truth wey dey Bible fit help young people see sey Bible na God word?		How can young ones grow in appreciation for the value of Bible principles?
How we go take show sey we trust to always do the correct thing?		How can we show that we have confidence in " the Judge of all the earth "?
I dey among the four small girls wey dem select to give Adolf Hitler flower, after e talk finish one day.		I was among four little girls chosen to present Adolf Hitler with flowers after he gave a speech one time.
I don dey full - time service for more than 40 years. E dey really make me happy. I dey see how dey bless me as I dey do am.		I am grateful to have been in the full - time service for over 40 years, experiencing many joys and rewards.
If na so e be for us, then we go fit enjoy wetin Jesus talk. E sey: ' [ God ] go add this other things join for una. '		If we do that, then, as Jesus said, " all these other things will be added " to us.
If this kind thing don happen to you, wetin you go do to get joy again?		If this has happened to you, how can you regain your joy?
If to sey we dey do everything wey want without mistake, we fit talk sey all the good wey e dey do for us na our right.		If we met all of 's requirements perfectly, his kindness toward us would be deserved.
If you get am for mind to marry, you believe sey fit help you see who you go marry?		Do you have faith that God will fill your needs for love and companionship in a satisfying way?
If you see sey your children no dey enjoy una new congregation, wetin you fit do?		Parents, if your children are struggling to fit in, take time to pray with them about this matter.
If you think am well, you go really see am sey na suppose be King.		In doing so, it should become evident that God 's sovereignty is right.
get the right to tell us wetin we go do because na im make us.		has the right to make laws for us because he created us.
tell Zechariah make e collect gold and silver from three men wey just come from Babylon. Their name na Heldai, Tobijah, and Jedaiah. Zechariah go use the gold and silver take make ' better crown. '		Zechariah is told to collect silver and gold from Heldai, Tobijah, and Jedaiah - three new arrivals returning from Babylon - and to make " a grand crown " out of the contributions.
Karen wey come from Canada, dey 72 years now, and e pass 20 years wey e do missionary work for West Africa.		Karen from Canada, now in her early 70 ' s, served over 20 years in West Africa.
Kristina talk sey: ' I sabi my papa and mama language small. But when dem dey use the language for meeting, I no dey understand am.		I knew the basics of my parents ' language, but the language spoken at the meetings was over my head, " recalls Kristina.
Later, King David arrange the Levite and priest for different different group to do their work well. ( 1 Chron.		Later, King David organized the Levites and the priests into effective divisions.
Like Peter, make we put the work wey Jesus don give us as the main thing for life, to show sey we really love Jesus.		Just as Peter did after his experience with the resurrected Jesus, we prove the depth of our love for Christ by putting the work he has given us to do in first place.
Make una go learn wetin this thing mean: " I no need sacrifice.		Go, then, and learn what this means: ' I want mercy, and not sacrifice. '
Many people dey like follow their pikin talk about " Was It Designed? "		Many parents enjoy discussing articles in the Awake! series " Was It Designed? "
My wife like wetin the woman talk, and e come dey hungry am to know more.		My wife, Mairambubu, overheard these words while traveling on a bus.
Na true sey dey pity for the person.		True, an unintentional manslayer was shown mercy.
One brother and im wife for South Africa talk sey the topic wey their pikin wey be 15 years dey first read for Awake!		The parents of a 15 - year - old in South Africa said: " The first thing that our daughter usually reads in Awake!
One thing wey Jesus talk before show say, to obey and to love de go together. E talk say: " Any person wey e hear my commandment and obey - am, na that person love me. "		As to the connection between obedience and love, Jesus earlier said to his apostles: " Whoever has my commandments and observes them is the one who loves me. "
One way na to follow the better advice wey dey Philippians 2: 3. That place talk sey: " Carry yourself down when you dey do things, with the mind sey other people better pass you. "		One way is by following the encouragement given at Philippians 2: 3: " With humility consider others superior to you. "
People wey just join our congregation: E fit be sey some brothers and sisters just join our congregation, and some fit come with their family.		New to the congregation: Individuals and families may move to your area.
Plenty people for this world get the kind character wey that three people get before.		A growing trend in today 's world is reflected in the attitudes that those three once had.
So even if our work change, make we continue to carry ourself down. And make we remember sey na wetin want we suppose do, no be our own.		As changes affect us personally, may we be humble, keeping an eye on 's interests and not on our own.
Tell the matter for prayer! "		Pray about it! "
The main thing wey make me fit stand well for side na how my papa and mama take train me. "		Much of the credit for my spiritual advancement must go to them. "
The person wey dey inside this city fit work, fit help other people, and serve with peace of mind.		The city offered him an opportunity to work, to help others, and to serve in peace.
This kind thing fit help our brother or sister wey come from another place to fit enjoy their life for our place. - Prov.		Such initiatives may make a big difference in the life of a fellow believer. - Prov.
We do circuit overseer work when e no dey, and we still help for convention.		We did substitute circuit work and convention work.
We go answer this question: Wetin go comot so that peace go dey this earth and everybody go happy?		What will remove in order to build a peaceful, happy world?
We no fit really know how body dey do you, but know and e go continue to make you strong.		We can 't understand exactly how you feel, but does and will keep raising you up.
Wetin Jesus talk about person wey never marry?		What did Jesus say about singleness?
Wetin dey the book of Job, go help us see why e good to support as our King. This book na one of the book wey dem first write for Bible.		The need for proper perspective is made quite clear in the book of Job, one of the earliest Bible books to be written.
Wetin fit happen if we just dey follow our mind when we dey vex or no happy?		Why is it dangerous simply to follow our heart if we are angry or discouraged?
Wetin go remain when bad religion, government and business no dey again?		What will replace corrupt organizations?
Wetin make King James Version popular?		What made the King James Version significant?
Wetin we fit do make brothers and sisters remain as one?		What can we do to promote more unity among God 's people today?
Wetin you learn from the way take look the four king for Judah?		What impressed you about God 's approval of the four kings of Judah?
When Paul write about " the first things wey dem teach about Christ, " e come still talk " the things wey dem teach about resurrection for people wey don die. " ( Heb.		When Paul wrote of " the primary doctrine about the Christ, " he included " the teaching on. the resurrection of the dead. "
Why we get faith?		True Christian faith is based on what fact?
Why we need to get strong mind?		Why do we need courage?
Why you want make sure sey you go Memorial this year?		Why are you determined to be present at this year 's Memorial?
You for join hand support this big work?		Would you have been moved to support this great work?
You think say e go easy for Rehoboam make e do wetin talk?		You can imagine how that would have troubled Rehoboam!
people for this world dey live anyhow life?		the spirit of the world?
Make you dey happy because of and e go give you wetin you want. ' - PS.		Find exquisite delight in, and he will grant you the desires of your heart. " - PS.
The kind paper wey dem first take write Bible dey rotten; two of that kind paper na papyrus and parchment; ( 2 ) government and leaders for religion try to destroy am; and ( 3 ) some people try to change the message wey dey inside. - wp16.4, pp.		It survived ( 1 ) the threat of decay of the materials used to write on, such as papyrus and parchment; ( 2 ) opposition by political and religious leaders who tried to destroy it; and ( 3 ) attempts by some to alter its message. - wp16.4, pp.
Wetin go help us use our freedom well?		And what can we do to make wise use of this freedom?
Even people wey be missionary know sey no be only wetin dem dey learn from meeting go help dem serve well, dem still need personal study.		Even missionaries recognize that to remain strong in their foreign assignment, they cannot rely merely on the basic understanding of the spiritual food they get at the meetings.
To show sey get power to bring people wey don die come life again, Jesus talk something about Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob.		Proving that is capable of resurrecting the dead, Jesus once said that Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob " are all living to him. "
Bible still dey help us know why we suppose dey preach from house to house, for open place, and anywhere wey people dey. ( Matt.		The Scriptures also emphasize our duty and privilege to preach from house to house, in public places, and informally.
Many people dey happy to talk story wey don happen to dem.		Remember that showing personal interest in guests is always helpful.
Dem dey put their mind for the time when dem go join Jesus rule this earth and comot sin from human being body.		They look forward to serving with Jesus Christ in his heavenly Kingdom and sharing with him in bringing mankind to perfection.
The first thing na for dem to ' do everything to know wetin really happen. '		First, they need to make " a thorough investigation and inquiry " to establish if wrong has been done.
Wetin make apostle Paul really happy?		According to Paul 's letter to the Thessalonians, what gave him deep joy?
Which question we go talk about?		What questions do we need to answer?
The love wey we get no fit reach Jesus own.		No human could show greater love.
And e let God word touch im mind well well. - Read Psalm 119: 11, 46.		Yet, he allowed God 's sayings to touch his heart deeply. - Read Psalm 119: 11, 46.
How Daniel take show sey e get the sense wey God dey give?		In what ways did Daniel show godly wisdom?
When e go back to Jerusalem, prophet Jehu come ask am sey: ' Na bad people you suppose help, and na people wey hate you suppose love? ' - Read 2 Chronicles 19: 1 - 3.		At that, the prophet Jehu asked him: " Is it the wicked you should be helping, and is it those who hate you should love? " - Read 2 Chronicles 19: 1 - 3.
no go stop to love dem.		The benefits of the ransom last forever.
If we dey bear suffer, we dey make happy and we dey get hope more more.		Our endurance produces " an approved condition " and strengthens our hope.
But as Jesus dey heaven now, how e go take dey lead God people for earth?		But as an invisible spirit in heaven, how would Jesus lead God 's people on earth?
This one show sey na four things we go do.		Four actions are therefore required.
If you do this things, get am for mind sey you no go dey among the bad people wey go comot with this wicked world.		Cherish your hope, ponder over it, make it real in your mind and heart - and share it generously with others! That way, you can be sure that you will not pass away with this condemned old world.
So, go make sure sey e save people wey dey im side. Na part of wetin e go do to show sey im na better King.		Hence, will see to it that the vindication of his sovereignty includes the salvation of obedient humans!
How take use better word help im people?		What encouragement did give to his ancient people?
Which blessing fit pass this one?		What a blessing this is!
Isaiah go the message; na im make am talk sey, ' I dey here!		Today, thousands are demonstrating that same " Here I am!
How we go take copy Noah example?		How can we imitate Noah 's faith and obedience?
After God make the first man, Adam, e carry the animal dem go meet am, make Adam give dem name.		After God created the first man, Adam, the animals were brought to him so that he could name them.
After the talk finish, e come give people chance to ask question. O 'Connor and im friends come use this chance take dey argue with am.		Then, in a question - and - answer session, he is challenged by O 'Connor and friends but ably defends the message with the Bible.
And how we go take show sey we value am as person invite us?		Why and how should we honor an invitation we have accepted?
And people no go dey fear animal wey dey bush again. "		Even wild beasts will be tamed. "
Apostle Paul write to Christians wey be Hebrew sey: ' Brothers, make una take time, so that any of una no go come get bad mind wey no get faith, wey go make una leave God; but make una continue to dey tell unaself better word every day, so that sin no go deceive any of una come make una stubborn. ' ( Heb.		The apostle Paul wrote to the Hebrew Christians: " Beware, brothers, for fear there should ever develop in any one of you a wicked heart lacking faith by drawing away from the living God; but keep on encouraging one another each day,. so that none of you should become hardened by the deceptive power of sin. "
Ask dem the kind work wey pioneer fit do.		Ask them what work is practical for pioneers.
Because the belt tight for waist, the soldier fit get strong heart when e go fight.		With his belt fastened tightly, a soldier could confidently stand firm in battle.
Before the heavy rain fall for time of Noah, Satan fool some of the angels make they sleep with women for this earth.		Prior to the Flood, Satan lured at least some of them into having immoral relations with the daughters of men.
Better Bible study just be like person wey dey travel to see wetin e never see before.		It should not be as if you were memorizing facts just to pass a school exam.
Bible sey dem no go like wetin good. Some Bible talk sey this ' people go hate good thing ' or ' dem no go want take eye see good thing. '		Godless ones would be without love of goodness, or as some translations render the expression, " haters of good " or " hostile to all goodness. "
Brothers and sisters come from different different place go help dem. The sister happy no be small when e see dem and e make im mind come down.		She says that she was " very encouraged and comforted " by the efforts of the many volunteers from elsewhere in Japan and from overseas to repair property damage.
But, the truth be sey e no dey easy sometimes to bear bad thing wey person talk about you.		It may be challenging to treat criticism lightly.
But after one month, dem hear better news.		But then, a month later, they received thrilling news.
But make you go meet elders for congregation. ( Prov. 24: 16; Jas.		But you must accept the help he provides through the congregation.
But now wey e don die, wetin go come happen? Remember wetin Martha talk.		Now that Jesus ' dear friend was dead, though, what did the future hold?
But wetin make e no do like that?		Why does he not do so?
Daniel grow for Judah, and the people that time dey do bad things.		How so? Despite the wickedness that prevailed in Judah during Daniel 's early childhood, the boy grew to love God.
David write for Bible sey: ' I dey remember you when I dey my bed; I dey think about you for night. ' ( Ps.		I meditate on you during the watches of the night.
Dem dey sofri plan how dem go take use the money, and dem dey use am do wetin dem plan.		The funds that are received are budgeted and spent accordingly.
Dem dey treat the things wey make like their god.		Such teachings as evolution tend to make nature into a sort of god, giving it powers that belong only to.
Dem send us go one area wey Witness no too dey preach. The area dey where dem dey call Cheshire.		We were sent to unassigned territory in the county of Cheshire.
E come sey, ' If na so, make una use am carry bread go give dem. '		Then deliver bread to the front lines, " he said.
E get one brother wey im name na Hans. E dey serve as elder for im congregation for Austria.		Consider the example of Hans, who serves as an elder in a congregation in Austria.
E name na Jane. All our children wey we born na five.		The next year, we were blessed with a daughter, Jane, the first of our five children.
E no easy for me to make am like me back. But at last e gree.		It took effort to win her heart - but I succeeded.
E no easy for person to wait.		Waiting is not easy.
E pass one year wey we stay for Mistelbach.		We stayed in Mistelbach for more than a year.
E talk about wetin we go do to run from sex matter wey no clean for God eye. E still talk wetin we go do if we get problem with our brothers and wetin go help us handle family problem.		For instance, he explained how to resist immoral desires, handle problems with fellow believers, and deal with family difficulties.
E tell us the answer for inside the same Psalm 13, where e for ask: ' Which time? '		He gives us the answer in the very psalm in which he four times asked: " How long? "
E try to make Joseph sleep with am. But Joseph no gree.		What prevented Joseph from succumbing to her repeated advances?
Even small problem fit big for our eye if we too dey think about am.		Even relatively minor ones can loom large in our mind if we dwell on them.
For all the people wey don live for this earth, who you think sey be the number one example of person wey don show sey e get God spirit?		Yet, of all the people who have lived, who is the most outstanding example of a spiritual person?
For example, for 1932, Bennett Brickell wey dey 23 years travel from Rockhampton wey dey Queensland, go preach for one part of the state wey far well well.		For example, in 1932, 23 - year - old Bennett Brickell set out from Rockhampton, Queensland, on a five - month preaching trip through the remote northern part of that state.
For example, when im friend Lazarus die, e know sey e go bring am come life again.		Take, for example, the time when his dear friend Lazarus died.
For the topic wey dey before this one, we don learn wetin e mean and why e good for person to know where e suppose do reach.		In the preceding article, we learned why modesty is still important for Christians and what displaying it involves.
For this topic, we go learn how we go take make happy when we show sey we value the gift of freedom wey e don give us.		In this article, we will learn how to treasure God 's gift of free will by using it in a way that pleases the Giver of that gift.
How this kind better hope affect the way e de think and do things now?		How does this solid hope affect her thinking and actions now?
How we go know sey the thing wey we want do good for eye?		In the absence of specific laws, how can we know what choices will please?
I don learn too say, your brother na your brother no matter the skin color, and e fit even die for you.		And I have learned that a brother is a brother regardless of skin color, and he will die for you if need be.
I fear I want really comot for there, but I no fit write that kind thing.		I really wanted to leave, but I would not write those words.
If you want know more, press " Contribute to Support the Work Wey We Dey Do for the Whole World " wey dey the bottom of any page for our website or ask the branch office for your country.		For more information, select the link " Make a Donation to Our Worldwide Work " at the bottom of any page on jw.org, or contact the branch office.
don bless Irene and other people wey dey use the language preach.		Yet, has blessed her zealous spirit and that of others like her.
no go tell us by imself sey make we go tell person wetin go make am strong the way e tell Moses make e do for Joshua.		will not personally tell us to say something encouraging to a particular individual as he told Moses to encourage and strengthen Joshua.
no want make im people dey thief ( Check paragraph 5 - 7 )		Stealing of any kind has no place among Christians ( See paragraphs 5 - 7 )
Jesus don give im brothers wey God choose with holy spirit wey still dey this earth ' the work to make people settle with God. '		Christ has given his anointed brothers on earth what Paul calls " the ministry of the reconciliation. "
Jesus teach e disciples one important thing wey e de help us remain as one.		Jesus taught his followers a fundamental principle that underlies our unity.
Lamech, wey come from Cain family, na the first person wey Bible sey get two wife.		Cain 's descendant Lamech is the first man reported as having two wives.
Make children dey hear word for their papa and mama, and make papa and mama dey teach their pikin wetin want. ( Eph.		Children should obey their parents and be disciplined in 's ways.
Make that time quick come!		How we long for that day!
Make we do everything wey we fit do to make name holy, as Jesus talk for the prayer. ( Isa.		In harmony with this prayer, we want to do our utmost to sanctify, or treat as holy, 's name.
Make we still think about all the things wey Jesus use Paul do. Bible talk sey Jesus ' select Paul make e carry im name go meet people for plenty country. '		We can also think about what Paul accomplished as " a chosen vessel to [ Christ ] to bear [ Jesus ' ] name to the nations. "
Many times, to talk wetin go make person strong na to praise am for the better thing wey e do.		Encouragement often involves commending a person for something he or she did well.
Maria come dey pity for dem, because e know sey na message dem send dem.		Maria felt sorry for them, as they were only obeying orders.
My doctor tell me sey I no go fit born pikin. But for 1962, I come get belle. E surprise me no be small!		My doctors had told me that I could not have children, so we were surprised to learn in 1962 that I was expecting!
My mama get strong faith for. Even though sey e no go school, if e see any better chance, e dey preach to people.		My mother had an unshakable faith in God, and even though she was illiterate, she shared it with others at every appropriate opportunity.
My papa and mama no go, but I go.		My parents did not go, but I did.
NA TWO times New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures use the word ' new character. ' ( Eph. 4: 24; Col.		THE new personality. " That expression occurs twice in the New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures.
Na School for Kingdom Evangelizers come dey now.		Now replaced by the School for Kingdom Evangelizers.
Na bad thing to sleep with person wey no be our husband or wife.		The suggestion that a Christian should tolerate sexual immorality is wrong.
Na for im children time I go do am. ' ( 1 Ki. 21: 27 - 29; 2 Ki.		I will bring the calamity upon his house in the days of his son. "
Na im make ' e no come dey worry again. ' ( 1 Sam.		In any event, " her face was no longer downcast. "
Na im make, after Armageddon we go look where dem dey stay but we no go see dem.		After Armageddon, then, we may look where the wicked used to be, but we will not see them.
Na im make dem suppose take care of this visitor dem because dem be brothers for congregation.		Hence, the brothers were part of the Christian congregation and deserved a warm reception.
Na so e still be for person wey don big before e learn about.		The same principles apply to those who come to know as adults.
Na true sey God fit know our tomorrow.		God certainly can foreknow the future.
No dey buy anything wey you no need		Eliminate unnecessary expenses
Now, I dey preach to plenty people pass before. "		And now I really do preach to more people than before. "
One Witness wey don old come preach for our house. E tell us wetin Bible talk about " the last days. " ( 2 Tim.		One older Witness came to our house and explained what the Bible says about " the last days. "
Paul talk better things about Christians for the letter wey e write.		In his letters, Paul spoke highly of his fellow Christians.
Remember sey, ' no be children suppose save for their papa and mama, but na papa and mama suppose save for children. ' - 2 Cor.		Remember, " children are not expected to save up for their parents, but the parents for their children. " - 2 Cor.
SONG: 126, 150		SONGS: 126, 150
So, e dey use this world to make us put hand for things wey fit make us stop to read and study Bible.		So he uses his system of things to discourage Bible reading and study.
So, e go good make you listen.		So be a good listener.
So, when we dey pray, make we tell am everything wey dey our mind.		We should therefore not hesitate to pour out our hearts to him in prayer concerning our personal grief.
So instead make we dey think sey dem go sabi everything at once, make we manage dem as dem be. - Read Romans 15: 7, footnote.		But rather than expect them to embrace our culture, why not accept them just the way they are? - Read Romans 15: 7, footnote.
So make all of us do wetin we fit do to copy example.		He sets the perfect example for us.
So na good thing God do as e forgive our sin and give us life wey no go end. True true, no be wetin suppose reach our hand.		So our being forgiven and offered the prospect of living forever is truly a kindness that is undeserved.
So when dem hear sey Peter dey the area, dem beg am make e come.		When the disciples heard that Peter was in the area, they urged him to come at once.
That time, dem preach well well for city and town wey dey waterside or wey near waterside. But for inside Australia people no too many.		Inland lay the sparsely populated outback, an arid region over half the size of the United States.
That time, na only two congregation dey the place, one for white people, and the other one for black people.		In those days, there were two congregations in Pine Bluff - one white and one " colored, " or black.
The faith wey God servant get sey resurrection dey, no go just comot the pain wey e dey feel if person die.		Faith in the resurrection does not eliminate the deep loss a Christian may feel.
The man wey get the passport and im family no believe sey person fit do that kind thing.		The man who had lost it was astonished - as was his family.
The name mean " person wey no get sense " or " mumu. " So David come ready to go punish Nabal for im bad mouth.		So David prepared to punish Nabal for his offensive and unreasonable response.
This na one better way to " do good to strangers. " - Rom.		This would be a fine way to " follow the course of hospitality. " - Rom.
This one go help your pikin know sey even though sey e don tey wey dem write Bible, na get am. Because when people check the things wey dey Bible, e always dey correct. - Neh.		Such a lesson would impress on your child that had facts recorded in the Bible long before humans could prove them. - Neh.
This one show sey dem no even know wetin Jesus go do the time wey e go rule people for this earth.		They seem to have no idea of what Jesus will accomplish as earth 's new Ruler.
This thing na the Kingdom of God and na e go remove all our problem.		That was God 's Kingdom, which would be the real solution.
This women different well well from the one wey dey the container.		How different these women are from the woman in the container!
True true, when we see the things wey dey use im people do for this last days, e reach to make person open mouth.		Indeed, when we consider the things that is accomplishing through his servants in these last days, it is simply amazing.
We change some people name.		Names have been changed.
We try to help dem put wetin God want for mind.		We endeavored to instill spiritual values in our daughters ' minds and hearts.
Wetin Bible talk sey go happen to bad religion, government and business?		According to the Bible, what will happen to organizations that seem solid to many people today?
Wetin Jesus get for mind be sey e go soon die for everybody.		No doubt, Jesus had in mind that he would soon give his life in behalf of mankind.
Wetin go help you control yourself?		What can you do to work on your self - control?
Wetin show sey Mary na person wey God spirit dey direct?		What shows that Mary was a spiritual person?
Wetin this world dey make people do? Wetin we go do if we no want make e affect us?		How is the spirit of the world affecting mankind, and how can we avoid that dangerous influence?
Wetin we go do if we want make Jesus continue to love us?		How do we show that we want to remain in Christ 's love?
When Shishak reach Jerusalem, the place wey Rehoboam dey, the condition for the kingdom of Rehoboam don really bad.		Matters came to a head when Shishak reached Jerusalem, where Rehoboam reigned.
When the people join the pieces together, dem come fit read wetin dem write for the pot.		When archaeologists were finally able to piece the artifact together, they could decipher the ancient Canaanite script.
When vine produce good grapes, the farmer de get honor. Na so e still be, when we do our best as we de preach the good news about the Kingdom, e de bring honor and praise to our God. - Matt.		Just as vines that produce good grapes bring honor to a cultivator, so we bring honor, or glory, to when we proclaim the Kingdom message to the best of our abilities. - Matt.
Which kind work I go do to help myself?		Will I be able to support myself?
Why e be like that?		What Did Jesus Really Look Like?
Why we fit talk sey Jesus load dey easy to carry? How that one make you feel?		In what sense is Jesus ' yoke kindly, and how should knowing that affect us?
get mind sey go save you?		have confidence that God will rescue you?
Do like the people wey get the things wey God don promise because of their faith and their patience. ' - HEBREWS 6: 12.		Be imitators of those who through faith and patience inherit the promises. " - HEBREWS 6: 12.
This one no go only give us life but we go still get chance to be part of God family again.		By doing so, Jesus restores more than life; he gives us the opportunity to return eventually to God 's family.
Elders fit do like Paul. Sometimes, make dem dey carry ministerial servant follow body, if dem go shepherding call.		Elders can imitate Paul 's example by taking qualified ministerial servants along on shepherding calls when appropriate.
And even when the government for Rome and the people wey dey teach for the temple wey dey Jerusalem dey suffer dem, dem no still stop to do meeting.		And they did not stop meeting together even when they were persecuted by the Roman government and the Jewish religious leaders.
Na the apostles dey direct how dem go use the money wey congregation contribute.		The apostles managed the financial resources of the congregation.
As time dey go, other elders wey God use holy spirit choose come join the apostles dey direct things for congregation.		In time, other anointed elders joined the apostles in administering the affairs of the congregations.
[CONTENT_REMOVED]		You can find practical suggestions in studies 21 to 23 of Benefit From Theocratic Ministry School Education. )
If to sey you dey there, wetin for come your mind when you see how Jerusalem be?		If you had traveled with them, how would you have felt when you first caught sight of Jerusalem, your new home?
So e good make we train new publishers to sabi talk with people well.		So we have good reason to train new publishers to converse with people in a friendly, relaxed manner.
Na true sey no be every time wey person do the correct thing dem go thank am for wetin e do, like dem do for Haykanush.		True, being honest may not always lead to being rewarded, as was Haykanush.
Or that time wey you learn sey you fit be friend. ( Jas.		Or perhaps when you learned that you could become 's friend.
Wetin e mean for person to " come really believe " something?		What does " persuaded to believe " mean?
But Bible no talk sey make Christian follow this command.		The Bible does not say that such a command applies to Christians.
How politics and religion matter don make people put hand for fight and wetin no correct?		How did political and religious issues lead to violence and injustice?
Wetin Zechariah see for the seventh vision?		In his seventh vision, what does Zechariah see?
So make we self value people life like.		We should likewise strive to cultivate a godly view of life.
After Jesus start to dey preach, im disciples come dey baptize people.		During the course of Jesus ' earthly ministry, his disciples also performed baptisms.
After apostle Paul don talk sey ' things go hard well well ' for our time, e still talk sey ' wicked people and people wey dey pretend, go bad more more. '		After foretelling that this present era would involve " critical times hard to deal with, " the apostle Paul was inspired to write: " Wicked men and impostors will advance from bad to worse. "
After two weeks, Riana come go convention for another area. The money wey e carry no reach anything. E no know wetin e go do.		After two weeks, Riana left the area almost penniless to attend a regional convention, wondering what to do.
All of us fit try de welcome visitors wey we see for our meeting.		And all of us can make it a point to welcome those who attend meetings at the Kingdom Hall.
All this one show sey wetin King Solomon talk for Bible na true. E sey: " Man don control man enter wahala. " - Eccl.		All of this once again testifies to the truthfulness of King Solomon 's inspired observation: " Man has dominated man to his harm. " - Eccl.
All tree no be the same. No be the same time e dey take dem to grow for new place.		Some trees take longer than others to become firmly rooted in a new environment.
And e go easy for the wife to dey respect, to support and do wetin im husband like. One sister wey im name na Cathy agree sey things go change when person marry.		Admitting that marriage calls for adjustments, Cathy says: " As a single sister, I was independent and took care of myself.
And how we fit help people wey come from another place make dem happy as dem dey our congregation?		And how can we help those from a foreign background to feel at home in our congregation?
And if na wetin bad well well, make you tell elders. If you don do this one, you fit dey sure sey don forgive you.		If you are sincerely repentant of past sins and have confessed them to the extent necessary, you can rest assured that will be merciful.
Anyhow e be, na bribe. - Ex.		Either action would distort justice. - Ex.
Apostles of Jesus come de tell Jesus make e chop.		The apostles urged Jesus to eat.
As people, ' if we get wetin we go chop and wetin we go wear, make we let am reach us. ' - 1 Tim. 6: 6 - 8; ftn.		Our " godly devotion " should prompt us to be content with " food and clothing, " or " sustenance and shelter. " - 1 Tim. 6: 6 - 8; ftn.
As Samuel F.		As told by Samuel F.
As e talk finish e come give im classmate the book and eleven of dem collect.		Eleven of her fellow students wanted a copy.
Beg sey, mek e give you sense to fit know any condition wey fit mek am hard for you to support only im Kingdom.		Ask for wisdom to recognize a situation that might make it difficult for you to stay neutral.
Bible talk sey e " do all the things wey God command am. " - Gen.		He did just so. " - Gen.
Brother Lemke wey work for navy talk about five people wey dey work with am for ship wey like the good news.		Brother Lemke, who served in the navy, reported finding interest among five of his own crewmates.
But, e sey: ' I want make una know sey as Christ be every man head, [ even for people wey dey direct ]; na so God be Christ head. '		Nevertheless, he added: " But I want you to know that the head of every man [ including every member of the governing body ] is the Christ;. in turn, the head of the Christ is God. "
Christians for apostle time, know sey na dey use Jesus lead the group of elders wey dey Jerusalem.		Christians in the first century recognized that the governing body was directed by God through their Leader, Jesus.
Dem get wetin dem need to take divide theirself to form new ones wey get life like dem.		So these cells have a way to store and copy the information needed to replicate themselves.
Dem no want stop the work because e dey make dem happy.		They do not want to give up work that they enjoy.
E be like sey God sofri carry Enoch comot from life to death. When God do am, Enoch no know sey e dey die. - wp17.1, pp.		It seems that God transferred Enoch gently from life to death without his being aware that he was dying. - wp17.1, pp.
E clear sey bad religion, government and business dey make many people suffer today.		Without question, corrupt organizations are responsible for much of the misery in today 's world.
E come dey help im family near as papa suppose do. This one really make im wife and children happy. " - Luke 6: 41, 42; Jas.		He also accepted his spiritual responsibilities as family head, much to the delight of his wife and children. " - Luke 6: 41, 42; Jas.
E come talk sey e go follow the sister talk about the matter.		She decided to ' consult, ' or speak with, the other sister.
E dey for one small town wey the name na Liberty, for Indiana for U.S.A.		I was born in a one - room log cabin in a very small town called Liberty, Indiana, U.S.A.
E fit be sey the only chance wey dem go get to ask us our story na when we dey enjoy ourself together.		Social occasions may be the only times others ask to hear about our experiences.
E fit don remember wetin dey Exodus 23: 19. That place talk sey mek God people use their mind give the thing wey better pass, for inside wetin dem get.		Maybe he remembered the words of Exodus 23: 19, which told God 's people to be willing to give their best to.
E go help us comot mind from wetin we do. E go still help us continue to serve am well. - Ps.		If we stay close to, he will forgive us and help us to heal and to handle similar situations successfully in the future. - Ps.
E go help you no put hand for things wey fit disturb your mind. Na you go gain if you no ' carry any bad mind, get hot temper, dey vex, dey shout and dey curse. ' - Eph.		Thus, you will likely avoid actions that could cause anxiety for you personally, and you will benefit by avoiding " malicious bitterness, anger, wrath, screaming, and abusive speech. " - Eph.
E hungry me to tell dem about God Kingdom because dem no be like people wey get hope.		I saw no sign of hope in their eyes, and I yearned to tell them about God 's Kingdom.
E tell us sey make we do all the meeting no matter how many people come.		We were told to hold all the meetings each week regardless of how many attended.
For 1943, I come baptize for one place wey dem dey call Blackpool, for England, when I dey ten years.		I was baptized in Blackpool, England, in 1943 at the age of ten.
For 1959, dem come arrest me because I dey print our book dem.		In 1959, I was arrested for printing Bible literature.
For example, Israel people sacrifice animal to. Christians ' dey always praise God, ' and this one be like sacrifice.		The Israelites offered animal sacrifices, and Christians have always been well - known for their " sacrifice of praise. "
For example, e fit start to like the things wey dey this world. Or e fit talk sey e no make sense to follow wetin Bible talk.		For example, a baptized adolescent may seem attracted to the things of the world or may begin to question the wisdom of living by Bible principles.
Give one example.		Give an example.
How Barnabas take help Paul? Bible talk sey: ' Barnabas come help am, and e carry am go meet the apostle dem. E tell dem everything wey happen, how e take see the Lord for road, and how e take talk to am.		We read: " Barnabas came to his aid and led him to the apostles, and he told them in detail how on the road he had seen the Lord,. and how in Damascus he had spoken boldly in the name of Jesus. "
How Jesus and many of im disciple take be refugee?		How did Jesus and many of his disciples become refugees?
How Judges 5: 31 talk sey our tomorrow go be?		What does Judges 5: 31 indicate for the future?
How we fit really dey free?		How can we become truly free?
How you think sey we fit help our Bible student to arrange their time well for personal Bible study?		Give a suggestion on how to help new ones to have a routine of personal Bible study.
I dey make am easy for dem to come beg me? I ready to make peace with person wey do wetin vex me? '		Am I eager to restore peace with someone who has offended me or who has hurt me? '
If Jesus talk say e good make Jew people pay tax, people fit stop to follow Jesus again.		Jesus was careful to remain neutral on the taxation issue.
If we control our temper when person talk wetin we no like, e fit make the person change im way.		When we maintain a mild temper even when provoked, some critical individuals may gradually be moved to adjust their disposition.
If we really want thank God for the favor wey e show us, we go still comot hand from dem.		Actually, our honesty should reflect our deep appreciation for God 's undeserved kindness.
help me comot all my problem. '		solved every problem. "
Later, as John dey read the book, e come be like sey na im first time to hear about God.		Later, as he read the booklet, John felt that he was hearing Bible truth for the first time.
Later, dem send am go do special pioneer work for Dumaguete City, and I go visit am.		By this time, she was a special pioneer in Dumaguete City, and I went to visit her.
Make una dey try well well to keep the one mind wey holy spirit dey give with the peace wey dey keep una together. '		That " uniting bond of peace " is priceless.
Make we no forget this one as we dey preach.		We should keep this in mind when we share in our witnessing work.
Make we put for mind and follow wetin Bible talk when we dey settle the matter.		May we loyally handle such matters in line with Bible principles.
Make we talk about how take use better word help Noah. The people for Noah time no dey worship.		s servant Noah lived in an ungodly world where the only people who worshipped were members of his family.
Moses do miracle and e get mind tell Pharaoh about. ( Ex.		Holy spirit enabled Moses to perform miracles and to declare God 's name to Pharaoh.
My mistake don plenty pass me, but you no dey put eye for our sin. ' - Ps.		My errors have overwhelmed me, but you cover over our transgressions. " - Ps.
Na Jesus be this person wey grow come out, or wey come from David family. And go make Jesus Kingdom last. - Isa.		The Scriptures clearly indicate that Sprout is Jesus Christ. - Isa.
Na im everybody come shout sey: " Yes! "		Then back to the field, O ye sons of the most high God!
Na the love wey all of us get for dey join us together. This love dey make us continue to get one mind.		And the love for that we and our fellow worshippers share is like a cord that ties us together and strengthens our bond of unity.
Na the love wey you get for go make you plan wetin you go do for am.		Planning involves your heart.
Number one, we de get peace as we de read Bible everyday. ( Ps.		First, we are helped to develop peace by reading God 's inspired Word regularly.
One day the KKK people march for one town wey we de serve for Tennessee.		One time, the KKK held a march in a town we were visiting in Tennessee.
Paul and Silas be like Abraham.		Like Abraham, the apostle Paul and his companion Silas were focused on God 's promises.
People for their place suffer dem well well. So this brothers need something wey go make their mind come down. ( 1 Thess.		These newly converted Christians " suffered at the hands of [ their ] own countrymen " and needed encouragement.
People for time of Jesus no dey as one. Na because of politics, their position for community, and different place wey they come from.		The people in Jesus ' day were divided by political, social, and ethnic differences.
Ruth even pack follow am go Israel, where e fit worship.		Ruth moved to Israel, where she could worship the true God.
Saul don rule pass two years, before stop to support am. But still allow am rule for 38 years before e die. - 1 Sam.		Although Saul was rejected by after ruling a little over two years, he was allowed to continue ruling for 38 more years, until his death. - 1 Sam.
So, to show sey ' dem fit trust us, ' we go use our money and property well.		Jesus ' point was that we can ' prove ourselves faithful ' with, or control, those riches once we obtain them.
So allow King Shishak of Egypt make e seize many city for Judah, even though say Rehoboam don make them really dey strong. - 1 Ki.		therefore allowed King Shishak of Egypt to capture many Judean cities, despite Rehoboam 's having fortified them! - 1 Ki.
Some of dem dey follow build Kingdom Hall, Assembly Hall and branch office. Others go School for Kingdom Evangelizers so that dem fit go help congregation wey no too get publisher.		Some of them work on construction projects or attend the School for Kingdom Evangelizers and move to a congregation that has a greater need for publishers.
Sometimes, Bible dey use the work wey people do take talk about dem.		The Bible sometimes describes people by the work they did.
Sometimes, e dey hard you to continue to get joy as you dey serve?		Do you at times find it hard to maintain your joy in 's service?
Sometimes I dey control myself, so that I no go just tell am wetin I believe.		Sometimes I have to bite my tongue so as not to give a dogmatic answer.
That na why e good mek we try no miss our meeting so that God fit use im holy spirit help us.		That is why we must do all we can to be at our meetings and receive the help of God 's holy spirit.
The belt wey be truth ( Check paragraph 3 - 5 )		The belt of truth ( See paragraphs 3 - 5 )
The day wey you baptize, which question dem ask you?		What happened on your baptism day?
The main thing wey suppose make us use this freedom well na because we get love and respect for, and we want praise am.		We could have no greater motive than to use God 's gift of free will to express our love for him and to bring him honor and glory!
The pikin wey don die come get up. When the mama see im pikin, e happy no be small!		Miraculously, the dead boy came to life and was reunited with his now elated mother!
The second topic tell us how we fit run from bad character wey fit make us miss wetin promise us.		The second article reminds us of how to avoid attitudes that could deprive us of the blessings that has promised.
The soil na the kind heart condition wey people get.		The soil represents man 's figurative heart.
The time wey e want baptize, im papa and mama tell am sey, ' If you join Witness, you go comot for this house! '		When she wanted to get baptized, her parents told her, " Become one of 's, and you will have to leave our home! "
This kind thing fit make dem no be friend again.		At times, people break off long - standing friendships because they find it too hard to extend forgiveness.
This na serious warning to people wey too like enjoyment.		What a sobering warning to those who are nurturing an inordinate love of pleasures!
This one really show sey ' God word dey alive and e get power. '		The way they are being affected is clear proof that " the word of God is alive and exerts power. "
To " produce fruit, " fit still mean to get " the fruit wey holy spirit de produce. " But for this topic and the next one, we go talk about the " fruit wey our mouth de produce, " or the preaching work. - Gal.		While " bearing fruit " also applies to producing " the fruitage of the spirit, " in this article and the next, we focus on producing " the fruit of our lips, " or Kingdom preaching. - Gal.
True true, e clear sey na dey lead Israel leaders.		Clearly, was leading them.
True true, this kind thing mek you come love pass as you love am before.		Surely this made you love even more.
We come quick carry chair take block our door. And we start to dey pack our load.		We quickly put chairs in front of our door and started packing our suitcases.
We get the mind sey e go give us the power wey we need to do wetin e want. ( 2 Cor.		We know that he can do whatever is needed to empower us to accomplish his will fully.
When we do wetin we promise, we go really gain.		Our worship is a way of life, not a mere formality.
When we get strong love for God and other people, we no go allow anybody or anything scatter our marriage.		Strong love for God and neighbor will not allow anyone or anything to interfere with the marriage bond.
Which kind people e choose?		Whom did he appoint?
Which way better pass to talk wetin go make person strong?		What gives deep meaning to our words of commendation?
YOU know any brother or sister wey go another country go preach for where dem need more publisher?		DO YOU know a brother or a sister who moved to a foreign country where there is a greater need for more Kingdom publishers?
Young person wey dey use im life do wetin like, go put mind for preaching.		A young person who focuses his life on the desire to please gives special attention to the ministry.
for house?		at home?
go make God do wetin e get for mind from beginning?		the accomplishment of God 's purpose?
see how dey use im Word help im people?		see how sustains his people with his Word?
Continue to Dey Tell Each Other Better Word Every Day, ' Nov.		Being Faithful Leads to God 's Approval, Apr. Benefit Fully From 's Provisions, May
Every month, congregation dey send wetin dem see for inside the box go branch office wey dey serve the country wey dem dey.		Each month, congregations forward these contributions to the office of 's that serves their branch territory.
Gaby wey we talk about before talk sey: " When my husband die, use the elders take help me.		Gaby recalls: " I am truly grateful to for the loving elders who walked me through every difficult step of the way.
If that one no work, we fit carry one or two person wey know about the matter or wey fit help settle am, go meet the person.		If that fails, talk to the offender in the company of to the wrongdoing or with others who can help to determine if a wrong has really been committed.
Wetin dem do dem no good o!		The injustice of it all!
How we go take know sey we self don dey get that kind character?		How can we tell if we are starting to develop that kind of pride?
[CONTENT_REMOVED]		See paragraph 17 )
send Jesus come help ' people wey no happy ' and people wey their person die. E make their mind come down.		Jesus was sent to provide comfort for " the brokenhearted " and " all who mourn. "
But when people come arrest Jesus, all the apostle run leave am - even Peter!		Nevertheless, when Jesus was being taken into custody, all the apostles - including Peter - abandoned him.
Another thing be sey, we fit dey hear as our neighbour, school mate or work mate dey like to use mouth spoil people wey come from another place.		Moreover, we likely hear neighbors, fellow workers, or schoolmates make derogatory remarks about those of another background, tribe, or skin color.
Who come be this leader?		Who was the prophesied leader?
But no be everytime David control imself. Like when e go sleep with Bath - sheba, and wetin e want first do Nabal wey make am vex. ( 1 Sam. 25: 10 - 13; 2 Sam.		That is not to say that David always controlled himself, as we know from his sin with Bath - sheba and his initial reaction to Nabal 's greed.
You Know?		Did You Know?
Wetin we go do to gain from the work wey elders dey do?		How can we benefit from those precious gifts?
From your Bible study, you go need to work well well to learn new things wey go help you.		You need to work hard to extract fresh points and practical lessons from your Bible study.
Make we no forget sey e don reach around 6,000 years since Adam and Eve sin and since that time, all of us dey make mistake.		We must consider that all of us are some 6,000 years removed from the human perfection that existed in Eden.
After dem sing and pray finish, dem come still invite all of us for another meeting for Angat the next Sunday.		After the song and prayer, all were invited to attend a meeting in Angat the following Sunday.
After the war, na plenty plenty times dem carry the Bible Student dem go court because dem dey preach.		During the following years, the Bible Students in Germany had to face thousands of court cases because of their preaching activity.
All of us need to look the kind person wey we dey make friend with. Make friend with people wey go help you do more for.		Certainly, whether you are a parent or not, you should not overlook the need to choose your associations wisely.
And if the person comot from the city, e go show sey e no value the life of the person wey e kill, and dem fit kill am.		If he were to leave the city, the fugitive would show a callous indifference toward the lifeblood he had shed, and his own life would be in danger.
And na better thing to fit sing come out like this.		Your singing voice will become fuller, and that is a good thing.
Another thing wey we dey enjoy because of favor be sey e dey make our mind come down even when we get problem.		A great blessing that comes to us through 's undeserved kindness is comfort for a distressed heart.
Apostle Paul na another better example wey we fit follow. E use im time take help people.		The apostle Paul likewise set an excellent example of one who gave generously of his time and attention.
As take bless Moses, na so e go take bless young people wey do wetin e want first for their life.		Likewise, will bless young ones who courageously work at setting spiritual goals and putting Kingdom interests first in their lives.
Ask better question, and sofri talk with respect, especially when you dey talk to person wey senior you.		Ask sincere questions, and express yourself with mildness and respect, especially when you talk with older ones.
Before, them de vex quick, but they help them change their character, and they come de make peace with people.		Applying Bible principles and praying for God 's spirit will help us to find peace
Bible help us know how organization for heaven be.		s written Word acquaints us with the heavenly part of his organization.
Bible talk sey, ' dey raise people wey no dey carry shoulder up. '		is always ready to step in and ' raise up the meek. '
Birgit come tell dem sey, ' We dey teach our children to follow wetin dey Bible. And Bible talk sey make dem dey respect and praise their teacher. '		Birgit explained, " Our children are taught to follow God 's standards of conduct, and this includes showing respect for teachers and honoring them. "
Brothers and sisters for congregation help am. E no hide anything from im wife.		I am open and honest with my wife about my feelings.
But Solomon later stop to dey serve well. ( 1 Ki.		But in the end, he failed to stay faithful to as a spiritual man.
But make we no forget wetin Jesus talk, sey go bless us well well for anything wey we leave to support im Kingdom.		However, Jesus assures us that those who make sacrifices for the Kingdom will receive abundant blessings.
But remember wetin Paul talk, e sey: ' go help una make una fit bear am. '		But recall Paul 's words: " He [ ] will also make the way out so that you may be able to endure it. "
Dem come dey wonder whether Arthur get sharp pocketknife.		Did Arthur have a sharp pocketknife?
Dem no gree follow wetin God tell dem.		They rejected the guidance God had provided.
Dem want tell everybody for the world sey Babylon the Great na that prostitute wey Bible talk about!		The whole world needed to see Babylon the Great for what it is - a religious prostitute!
Dey study Bible and our books well. Make you dey try know the new way wey organization sey make we dey do things.		Do not let your spirituality stagnate or your understanding of congregation procedures go out - of - date.
E don be regular pioneer and e dey even think about how e go take join another language group. "		He is now serving as a regular pioneer. He is even considering returning to a foreign - language group! "
E forgive dem even though sey dem go serve another god, like woman wey leave im husband follow another man.		Similarly, extended mercy to repentant Israel after that nation 's spiritual adultery.
E say they divide the religion of Jew people to form different - different group.		So Jesus warned his disciples: " Keep your eyes open; look out for the leaven of the Pharisees and the leaven of Herod. "
E talk sey: " If to sey I no gree make help me change my bad character, I for no get all this blessing. "		He states: " None of these beautiful blessings would be part of my life if I hadn 't accepted 's help to give my personality a complete makeover. "
For 1962, dem come call my husband to go Gilead School for ten months.		When Arthur received an invitation to attend the 1962 ten - month course at Gilead School, we had a big decision to make.
For 1993, e come join group wey dey use Russian language do congregation meeting for New York City.		When she began doing so in 1993, there were only about 20 publishers in the Russian - language group in New York City.
For example, Jesus talk sey: ' If una forgive people the bad things wey dem do una, na so una Papa wey dey heaven go still forgive una; but if una no gree forgive people the bad things wey dem do una, una Papa no go still forgive una the bad things wey una do. '		For example, one principle to remember is what Jesus said: " If you forgive men their trespasses, your heavenly Father will also forgive you; whereas if you do not forgive men their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses. "
For example, if we want be friend, we must do wetin e talk about blood. ( Gen.		For instance, to have God 's approval, we must act in harmony with his law on blood.
For example, think am sey people dey fight government wey don cause plenty problem for people and even for Witness.		For example, imagine that people rebel against a government that has caused much suffering, even for 's.
For the church leaders, this kind thing na insult.		From the point of view of the church, this was an outrage.
From wetin we don see, e make sense sey Jesus call this people wey dey sell for temple ' thief ' because of their longthroat and how dem take cheat people.		In light of the above, Jesus was justified in calling the temple merchants " robbers " on account of their exploitation and greed.
I dey make everything new. '		I am making all things new. "
I feel sey I dey useless. "		I feel that I 'm worthless. "
I go allow this world mold me, sotey I come stop to serve? '		Will I allow the world to squeeze me into its mold - and perhaps right out of the truth? '
If that one happen, mek you pray sey mek help you so that you no go fear to tell other people why you no dey support politics or war.		If so, pray for courage so that you can explain to others in a clear way why you are neutral.
If we dey pity for people, e go make us use all our mind help dem.		Feeling tender compassion will move us to acts of kindness.
Israel people na better example of people wey God arrange well.		The people of ancient Israel were a model of organization.
James 1: 5 talk sey: " If anybody among una no get sense, make e dey ask God and e go give am, because God dey open hand give anybody wey ask am for something, and e no dey vex for am. "		Says James 1: 5: " If any one of you is lacking in wisdom, let him keep asking God, for he gives generously to all and without reproaching. "
go always do wetin e promise.		God 's promises are absolutely reliable.
make Adam and Eve to fit born children wey no get sin for body.		created Adam and Eve with the ability to have perfect children.
no follow the matter as e take vex am.		however, did not react hastily.
want make you ' hold the real life tight ' so that your tomorrow go better.		You can be sure that wants you to " get a firm hold " on a happy future.
Jesus self show sey e love us. Na im make am agree to do wetin want.		Jesus proved his love for mankind by willingly carrying out God 's will.
Kumiko talk sey: ' My pioneer partner dey tell me everytime sey make we go, but I just dey tell am no.		She kept asking me over and over again, but I kept saying no, " says Kumiko.
Later, Olivia no come dey think like that again.		Then she started to think differently.
Lot na better person and the bad things wey people do that time really worry im and im family.		The righteous man Lot was tormented by all the wrongdoing that surrounded him and his family.
Make dem dey follow wetin Bible and organization talk.		Let him instruct you in child - rearing by means of his Word and the guidance we receive through his organization.
Make the thing wey you don talk happen to me as you talk - am. " - Luke 1: 26 - 38.		May it happen to me according to your declaration. " - Luke 1: 26 - 38.
Many people dey like to pray because e dey make their mind come down but dem no really believe sey God dey hear their prayer.		Many people pray because it makes them feel good, but they do not really believe that God hears their prayers.
NA sense dey come from, and e like to give people sense.		is the Source of wisdom, and he generously shares his wisdom with others.
NUMBER OF PEOPLE		POPULATION
Na 93 years my papa dey when e die, and my mama dey 86 years when e die.		My mother died at the age of 86.
Na big big tree surround the house, and na two - and - a - half acre ( 1 ha ) of land dem use.		Bethel was in a large, old house surrounded by big trees on a two - and - a - half acre ( 1 ha ) lot.
Na only the Kingdom of God and the things wey God say e correct dey our mind.		Christians seek the Kingdom of God and his righteousness.
Na our preaching work e dey use.		Through our disciple - making work.
Na true sey government fit give some of dem food, cloth, and where to put head. Even with that one, some things fit no easy for dem.		Governments may provide some food, clothing, and shelter, but familiar foods may be unavailable.
Na when we do this things we go really dey free.		Doing so will lead to true freedom.
No be the family wey Messiah go come from apostle Paul dey talk about for this verse.		The apostle Paul was not here discussing the ancestry of the Messiah.
ONE brother wey im name na Lije talk wetin happen to im and im family for Burundi. E sey: ' We dey assembly when dem start to fight and kill people for Burundi.		WHEN civil war started in Burundi, our family was at an assembly, " relates a brother named Lije.
One time wey we go Brooklyn, even though e don tey, I still remember one evening when me, my wife, Brother Franz and other brothers dey together.		During a visit to Brooklyn several decades ago, my wife, Mary, and I spent an evening with Brother Franz and a few others.
Plenty young brothers and sisters don sey, for now, dem no go marry or born pikin.		Thousands of young Christian men and women are willing to sacrifice getting married or are choosing not to have children, at least for now.
Psarras ), Apr.		Angels Real? No. 5
Put your mind for wetin promise and no let anything make you miss am!		So keep your mind on what has promised, and let nothing deprive you of the prize!
So, make we take am easy with dem and show dem real love.		with one of 's.
So e no make sense to believe sey we go fit know wetin good even if we no believe sey God dey, or if we no dey do wetin e talk for Bible. - Ps.		So we should not be tempted to think that someone could fully determine what is good without believing in God and adhering to his standards. - Ps.
So for am to be Christian, e go need to learn the first things wey person suppose learn for Bible.		He was not familiar with the Scriptures.
So that their mind no go comot from their plan, dem come put Bethel form for wall for their house. What of you?		To help themselves keep focused, they put a Bethel application up on a wall in their home.
That time, e just baptize and e dey 20 years. But Nicholas gather mind tell the army dem sey, ' I no fit fight war because I be Jesus soldier. '		Nicolas, aged 20, boldly told the military authorities, " I cannot fight because I am a soldier of Christ. "
The message really dey important. The place wey them dey na Montevideo, capital of Uruguay		Two sisters share a timely message with a store owner in Montevideo, capital of Uruguay
The soldiers wey dey shoot come shout sey make I come out from where I dey hide.		The soldiers who were shooting yelled for me to come out from my hiding place.
Things no easy for many people for our congregation.		Many in our congregation are enduring great difficulties.
This one dey make people no learn truth about God. No wonder many people feel sey dem no need religion to make dem happy.		No wonder an increasing number of people feel that they can be happy without religion!
Use any chance wey you get take teach dem, no be only when una dey prepare for meeting or when una dey do family worship.		Do this not only when preparing for Christian meetings or during family worship but at any time.
Wetin dem talk correct?		Is that viewpoint correct?
Wetin help Jephthah fit do wetin like, even if e no easy?		What helped Jephthah overcome his many challenges?
Wetin you fit do make you fit dey preach well pass as you dey preach now?		What adjustments might make you more effective in the ministry?
When Eliphaz, Bildad, and Zophar dey talk, another man wey im name na Elihu dey listen. Elihu come ask Job sey: ' If you be better person, wetin you fit give God; wetin e fit gain from you? '		Elihu was not corrected by for asking: " If you are righteous, what do you give him [ God ]; what does he receive from you? "
When morning reach, the only thing wey we see na one small house wey get tire.		The next day, all we could find was a little homemade trailer with two small bunk beds.
Where I fit do am?		Where can I apply it?
Whether we serve or we no serve am, we no fit change who e be. But e dey sweet am when we use our mind show sey we support am as King.		is complete in himself; yet he is pleased to note our intense interest in supporting his sovereignty.
Which blessing from God you dey wait for?		What rewards do you look forward to?
Why e choose dem?		For what purpose?
Why e good make we dey control ourself?		Why should Christians want to cultivate self - control?
Why e good make we dey show real love?		How important is genuine love?
Why e good make you ' no tire to wait '?		Why is it important for you to have " a waiting attitude "?
You don ever hear something for talk, or see something for our book, wey make you change how you dey think and behave?		Ask yourself, ' How often has a talk or an article in one of our journals moved me to make adjustments in my thinking or conduct? '
You fit get some kind work for congregation, and this one fit make other people dey respect you.		His experience bears out the warning that " pride is before a crash, and a haughty spirit before stumbling. "
dey show us many example of the fine fine things wey God make.		has highlighted examples of the amazing design that we see in nature.
Jesus talk sey na love big pass other character, when e answer the question wey sey: ' Na which command big pass? ' ( Matt.		Jesus emphasized the all - important quality of love for God when he answered the question: " Which is the greatest commandment in the Law? "
Even with their mistake, still use dem lead and e want make Israel people respect dem.		Nevertheless, despite the imperfections of these men, the Israelites were expected to follow their lead.
[CONTENT_REMOVED]		See paragraphs 15, 16 )
For the Law wey give Moses, sacrifice wey dem burn for fire na special sacrifice wey person dey give and na everything for the sacrifice be own.		Under the Mosaic Law, a burnt offering was a special gift that someone gave completely to.
Wetin this promise mean?		What did Hannah 's vow mean for Samuel?
Which question we go talk about?		What questions will we consider?
From wetin we know, e talk sey e want baptize because e don already promise to use im life serve Am.		To all intents and purposes, he presented himself as one who was wholly dedicated to God.
Wetin Jesus pray about for e last prayer with the apostles?		What request did Jesus make in his final prayer with his apostles?
So because Rehoboam obey, e kingdom come dey strong.		Thus, Rehoboam 's obedience strengthened his kingship.
E no good make we dey praise person and dey talk bad about am for back.		To commend someone but then tear him down behind his back is a form of hypocrisy.
Question From People Wey Dey Read Our Book		Questions From Readers
How holy spirit take help the brothers wey dey direct?		How did holy spirit empower the governing body?
But e fit still get problem for marriage, and when e start to get pikin.		However, she may still face tribulations linked to marriage and family life.
All this things go help us use faith ' see ' the Person wey make us. ( Heb.		These can enable us ' to see ' our Creator through our eyes of faith.
And when wine don dey finish for the marriage, Jesus come turn water to wine. Another time, e still follow other people enjoy.		At the wedding, he miraculously changed water into wine, adding to the supply, which had run short.
Another thing wey go make our faith strong na to think about how the people wey write Bible take talk true and get strong mind.		Another faith - strengthening aspect to consider is the courage and honesty of the men who wrote the Bible.
As e be sey faith na part of God holy spirit, make we continue to dey beg for im spirit as Jesus advise us. - Luke 11: 9, 13.		Since faith is an aspect of the fruitage of the spirit, we need to " keep on asking " for God 's spirit, as Jesus urged us to do. - Luke 11: 9, 13.
Bible talk sey God dey show people love, and e dey happy.		God wants you to find happiness by planning for things other than those that satisfy animals.
Bible talk sey Jesus ' don sitdown for the right hand of God throne. '		The Bible reports that he " has sat down at the right hand of the throne of God. "
Brothers and sisters for Bethel dey help do Bible and other book dem, wey people go use learn the truth.		The Bethel family helps to provide spiritual food.
But when some problem for life shake them, they fit change their mind and accept make we study Bible with them.		For instance, some in our territory may have lost their longtime job unexpectedly and are left in shock.
Check the box " How to Develop a Budget " wey dey July 2010 Awake!, p.		See the box " How to Develop a Budget " in the July 2010 Awake!, p.
David come ask this question, ' Now who ready to come out come give gift wey dey im hand? ' ( 1 Chron.		David next asks this question: " Now who volunteers to come forward today with a gift in hand for? "
David write for Psalm 16 sey: " You no go leave me inside Grave.		In Psalm 16, which is attributed to David, we read: " You will not leave me in the Grave.
Dec. ' no go let anything wey pass our power tempt us ' ( 1Co 10: 13 ), Feb.		When Are We Going to Have Another Assembly?
Dem dey try well well make dem no live the kind life wey people for this world dey live.		They fight hard to resist being tempted to live a materialistic, self - centered lifestyle.
E come hard for my mama to fit see food give all of us.		It was hard for my mother to find enough food for all of us.
E dey teach and advise people for school; the work dey stress am well well. And the brother get one sickness wey dey cause fear and wey dey make person too worry about things.		He has a high - stress job as a schoolteacher and counselor, and he also has had to deal with an anxiety disorder.
E don reach about eight years wey Alain don dey learn Persia language, e sey " If I dey use persia language prepare for meeting, na the lauguage I dey put mind pass.		Alain, who has been learning the Persian language for about eight years, admits: " When I prepare for meetings in Persian, I tend to focus on the language itself.
E get one special meeting wey Witness dey do every year for October. For the one wey dem do for 2016, Brother Stephen Lett, wey be one of the Governing Body member talk sey, we go soon get new songbook wey we go dey use for meeting. This one make everybody for the meeting happy well well.		There was excitement at the 2016 annual meeting of the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of Pennsylvania when Brother Stephen Lett of the Governing Body announced that a new songbook, entitled " Sing Out Joyfully " to, would soon be available for use at the meetings.
E go use Bible talk with am so that im pikin go come believe wetin e dey learn.		He needs to reason on the Scriptures so that his daughter develops conviction about what she learns.
E no bad and Jesus self know that one.		Of course we will, and Jesus knew that.
For to bless us, wetin we need to do?		How sure can we be of 's blessing?
For example, Bible talk sey make servant no dey lie.		Consider, for example, the matter of being honest.
For example, even if bad thing happen to us when we small or our condition now be like sey hope no dey, make we continue to fight and bear the problem.		For example, even if we had a difficult childhood or if our present circumstances seem hopeless, we need to keep contending and persevering.
Four of us sleep for inside motor that night.		That night the four of us slept in the car.
Get am for mind sey, one day, e go do am!		Be sure that at some point, he will do so!
How Jesus death fit make people rule for God Kingdom and enter paradise?		How does the ransom relate to the Kingdom of God?
How e be sey wetin we choose fit affect us and other people?		How could our decisions affect us and others?
How elders fit give correction so that e go help people?		How can the elders give counsel in an encouraging way?
How pioneer work fit help person do other things for?		How may pioneer service lead to other opportunities?
I happy sey I follow do the small one wey I fit do for the work.		I feel very privileged to have had a small share in that spiritual growth.
I tell them say: " I promise. "		the smiling girls asked me.
If Israel person want show sey e happy for wetin do for am, e go carry animal go meet priest then the priest go burn the animal for altar. E go burn everything.		When an Israelite wanted to show his sincere gratitude to, he would take an animal and have the priests burn it on the altar as a complete burnt offering.
If person conscience still dey judge am for wetin e do, how Paul example fit help am?		How can Paul 's example help those who struggle with feelings of unworthiness?
If we fit, make we carry dem go meeting.		If possible, offer them rides to meetings.
If we follow the advice wey dey Bible, e go help us.		We can do so successfully by applying the Bible 's wise advice.
If you dey read this thing wey I write, e mean sey I don die be that.		If you are reading this, I am no longer around.
day to destroy Jerusalem don dey near. And when the brothers see the things wey dey happen, dem come know sey time don reach for dem to run comot from Jerusalem, as Jesus talk.		Within just five years, Jewish Christians living in Jerusalem would see a " day of " approaching and recognize the sign Jesus had given them to flee for their lives from that city.
go make sure sey we get wetin we really need.		will see to it that we have what we really need.
John 12: 42 help us know sey many rulers for Jesus time believe Jesus. But dem no gree let people know because dem no want make the Pharisee pursue dem comot from synagogue. This one make us know sey no be only Joseph dey fear.		According to John 12: 42, " many even of the rulers actually put faith in [ Jesus ], but they would not acknowledge him because of the Pharisees, so that they would not be expelled from the synagogue. "
Katharina really happy well well when e see sey the brother na Hans!		How good that Katharina did not give up on her goal to witness to her workmates!
King Josiah wey be Hezekiah great grandpikin, still use all im mind do wetin talk. ( 2 Chron.		King Josiah, Hezekiah 's great - grandson, also resolutely kept 's commandments " with all his heart. "
Luke chapter 15 tell us story about one man wey get 100 sheep. For there, Jesus talk sey one for inside the 100 sheep lost.		In Luke chapter 15, we find Jesus ' powerful illustration about a man who had a flock of 100 sheep.
Make e ask imself sey, ' I ready to do wetin go make happy, to talk about am and im organization, and to make congregation clean for God eye? '		Ask yourself, ' Am I determined to please, to defend true worship, and to protect his people from any corrupting influence? '
Make una dey sing other song wey talk about God from una mind. Make una dey use all una heart sing to. ' ( Col.		The songs in our songbook are truly " spiritual songs [ to be ] sung with gratitude. "
Make we ask ourself sey: ' Who I dey do good things for? Na only my tight friend, people wey I dey take better eye look for congregation, or people wey fit pay me back?		We can ask ourselves: ' Do I offer hospitality primarily to close friends, prominent ones, or those who might be able to return a favor somehow?
Make we no dey pretend sey we like everybody.		Indeed, impartiality needs to be more than a veneer.
Many brothers and sisters dey use all their mind do pioneer work, work for Bethel, Kingdom Hall construction work, and assembly and convention work.		Millions of brothers, sisters, and young people are offering themselves in various fields of full - time service as pioneers, as Bethelites, as Kingdom Hall construction volunteers, and as volunteers at assemblies and conventions.
Mek we see some of the condition, and how we go fit show sey our hand no dey for politics matter.		Let us discuss some of those situations and what we can do to remain neutral.
My papa punish wuna with whip, but I go punish wuna with whip wey e get chuku - chuku. " - 2 Chron.		My father punished you with whips, but I will do so with scourges. " - 2 Chron.
Na better thing dey wait for us, whether we dey go heaven or we go stay this earth. E good make we put mind for the promise.		The prize before us - whether immortal life in heaven or everlasting life on a paradise earth - is marvelous to contemplate.
Na that same time dem invite Brian and Kimberly to come work for the Bethel wey dey London. Dem come later transfer dem go the Bethel wey dey Malawi.		At the same time, Brian and Kimberly were invited to work at London Bethel and later were transferred to Malawi Bethel.
Na the people wey no follow Barak Bible dey talk about when e sey, ' Make una think am! '		All the pleasure - seekers were urged to " consider! "
No matter the pattern wey we want use study any topic, make we no rush read the Bible verse dem and make we dey think about wetin dem talk.		Some electronic formats allow us to access quickly the cited texts from each study article.
Nobody fit know when that day go be. But the things wey dey happen don help us know sey the time don near. ( 1 Thess.		No one can know the exact timing of that end, but evidence shows that it is close.
One papa talk sey: " No tire to find new new way to teach old topic. "		Never tire of experimenting with new ways to approach old subjects, " said one father.
One sister for Brazil wey im name na Rachel talk sey: " Before, I dey like to dress like people for this world.		Rachel, a sister in Brazil, says: " I loved to follow the world 's fashions.
Or our family people wey no dey serve fit dey disturb us to marry ' before our time pass. '		Or a Christian may feel pressure from unbelieving relatives to get married ' before it is too late. '
PEOPLE WEY COME MEMORIAL ( 2015 )		MEMORIAL ATTENDANCE ( 2015 )
Papa and mama fit get good thing for mind, wey make dem talk like that.		Such reasoning may be well - intentioned, but will it help their child to achieve genuine success?
Paul allow God holy spirit direct am. Sometimes, God fit still use im spirit direct us too. But things fit no happen the way we think sey e go happen.		Perhaps there have been times in your life when you felt that you, like Paul, were following the leadings of God 's holy spirit, but then things did not turn out the way you expected.
Paul no shout for dem, but e respect dem.		He stayed calm and respectful.
Small time, I come dey use one day sell all my ice cream finish.		Soon, I was selling all my ice cream every day.
So if we no want sleep for matter wey concern God, we self go dey pray every time. - 1 Pet. 4: 7, ftn.		So to remain spiritually watchful, we too must stay alert in prayer. - 1 Pet. 4: 7, ftn.
Some of dem na: ( 1 ) E need to know sey value life.		Some are: God views life as sacred.
Some of the book dey talk about wetin go help young people fit manage the problem wey dem dey get for school.		Some of this material is designed to help them deal with the pressures at school or the challenges of adolescence.
Some papa and mama wey don join congregation wey dey use another language, don see sey their pikin no dey happy to dey serve again.		Some Christian parents serving in a foreign - language field have come to realize that their children 's interest in the truth has waned.
The flower wey Jesus dey talk about for here fit be the one wey oyibo dey call - gladiolus, hyacinths, irises, and tulips.		Jesus may have had in mind such lilylike flowers as gladiolus, hyacinths, irises, and tulips - all beautiful in their own way.
The prophet for ask to know whether wetin e first tell am don change. But Bible no tell us sey e ask.		The prophet could have asked to clarify His instructions, but the Scriptures do not say that he did so.
The road to Jerusalem far well well.		As the Jews traveled along, they no doubt spent many hours thinking about their new home.
Then ask dem sey, " Which kind character you think sey everybody wey go live for that island suppose get so that peace go dey and dem go fit do things together? "		Then ask, " What qualities must each person have if all in the group are to live in peace and get along well? "
This one dey make our faith for strong more more.		This confidence helps us to have faith in him.
This thing pain well well.		was deeply hurt.
Today, we fit know pass Noah, Daniel, and Job.		So dig deeply into God 's Word.
We don see sey we fit get joy wey dey last, even though sey wahala full everywhere.		Yes, as you increase your joy, you are likely to have better physical health.
We go still talk about wetin e mean to ' catch people ' like fish. - Matt.		It also explains what is involved in becoming " fishers of men. " - Matt.
We need to dey do wetin go make our faith strong. ( Col.		We need to continue to make spiritual progress.
Wetin e do show sey e dey think and feel like im Father. E do wetin im Father want and e follow wetin e talk.		He thought, felt, and acted like and lived in harmony with God 's will and standards.
Wetin fit help you start to enjoy the congregation?		What can help you to adjust?
Wetin happen for Deborah and Barak time for Bible, go help us answer this question dem.		Consider how the events that unfolded in the days of Deborah and Barak answer these questions.
When Brother Rutherford come, e give two talk for the convention wey really encourage dem. E still give five talk wey dem play for radio station.		During his visit, Brother Rutherford gave these faithful ones great encouragement, delivering two stirring convention talks and five powerful radio lectures.
When Hezekiah dey rule that time, na Assyria be the country wey strong pass. Even when dem want come destroy Jerusalem, Hezekiah still use all im mind trust.		Even when Assyria, the world power at that time, invaded Judah and threatened to annihilate Jerusalem, Hezekiah wholeheartedly relied on.
When I young, many circuit overseer and their wife dey come stay for our house.		Throughout my youth, my parents invited many circuit overseers and their wives to stay with us.
Which better thing dey happen when we use better mind help people?		Our showing compassion and kindness to all in the congregation may lead to what good results?
Which question we go ask ourself about small sin?		What should we ask ourselves about being " obedient from the heart "?
Wills and Trusts: Before person die, e fit use im lawyer write sey na Witness branch office for im country, go get im money and property when e die.		Wills and Trusts: Property or money may be bequeathed to an entity used by 's by means of a legally executed will or by specifying the entity as the beneficiary of a trust agreement.
You don ever think how things go be when sin don comot from the body of everybody wey dey do wetin God like?		Is it not heartwarming to think of a time when all faithful humans will be brought to perfection?
You fit don see children like that and this one fit make your mind no settle.		Hence, you might worry that your child will start out on the Christian course but then change and lose that original love of the truth.
paragraph 14 ) Some of the book dem na Questions Young People Ask - Answers That Work, Volume 1 and 2, and the different different " Young People Ask " topic wey we fit see for only our website.		paragraph 14 ) Such material includes Questions Young People Ask - Answers That Work, Volumes 1 and 2, as well as the series " Young People Ask, " which is now published exclusively online.
The trust wey we get for go make us gree sey, no be everything we fit do.		Our confidence in will help us not only to acknowledge but also to accept our limitations.
The driver wey carry Maria from court go prison, tell am sey: " No fear.		The driver who took Maria from the courtroom to the prison told her: " Don 't be afraid.
Wetin Jephthah learn about God help am for anything wey e want do.		Jephthah used that knowledge in his life when he made decisions.
go show dem ' im favor as e plenty reach. '		Toward them in particular, will " demonstrate the surpassing riches of his undeserved kindness. "
But e be like sey Job know sey na one wife God give Adam, and Job follow that example. ( Gen.		Evidently, though, he took as a pattern the marital union that God established in Eden, making that example a law to himself.
How take clean im people for our time, and who e use?		What restoration and refining work has been accomplished in modern times, and by whom?
Elijah no happy with dem because dem dey get double mind.		Elijah rebuked the people for being indecisive.
still give dem tongue to taste, hand to feel, eye to see, ear to hear, and nose to smell.		also created Adam and Eve with the senses of taste, touch, sight, sound, and smell.
E good make we dey always remember Jesus example. Jesus example go help us when person make us vex or when dem do us partial.		The need to think about Christ 's example may especially arise when we have been offended or have experienced an injustice.
Cool Temper - Na Better Sense		A Mild Temper - The Way of Wisdom
How dem take build the city wey person fit run go, and why dem build am like that?		How and why were the cities of refuge made easily accessible?
How our Life and Preaching meeting de help us?		What practical help do we receive at our midweek meetings?
Continue to Fight Make Bless You		Keep Contending for 's Blessing
Another thing be sey, Necho dey go fight people wey dey Carchemish no be people for Jerusalem.		Also, Necho was heading to Carchemish to war " against another house, " not to war against Jerusalem.
As e see sey na Jesus be the person wey God dey use do wetin e get for mind, e no waste time before e baptize. - Read Acts 22: 12 - 16.		He got baptized without delay. - Read Acts 22: 12 - 16.
As people wey dey serve, na how we and our family go take serve well suppose be the number one thing for our life.		As God 's servants, all of us need to give priority to our spiritual health and that of our family.
As we don hear, e show say the more you prepare well to preach, the more the " shoe " go balance for your leg.		As those comments indicate, the more prepared you are to preach, the more securely your " boots " will be bound to your feet.
Because Irene try use another language preach, how take bless am?		How was Irene blessed for her determination to share the good news?
Because no dey change wetin e don promise, we dey sure sey the way want make we worship am never change.		Because is unchanging and constant regarding his will and purpose, it is clear that his fundamental requirements for true worshippers remain the same today.
Because we dey think like Jesus, we no want make anything scatter our friendship with God.		As spiritual people, we want nothing to jeopardize our relationship with our heavenly Father.
Before 1930, Bible Students * for Australia no too many.		Up until the late 1920 ' s, the small number of Bible Students * in Australia had preached mostly in and around the coastal cities and towns.
But ' when Lot come dey waste time, pity for am. The men come hold im hand, im wife hand and im two daughter hand. ' Dem come carry dem go outside the city. ( Gen.		When he kept lingering, then because of 's compassion for him, the [ angels ] seized hold of his hand and the hand of his wife and the hands of his two daughters, and they brought him out and stationed him outside the city.
But after we don stay Africa for three years and six month, we comot because we go get pikin.		However, after three and a half years in Africa, we left to have a family.
But e make Psalm 144 rhyme with the better hope wey servant get. E don tey wey dem believe sey go destroy wicked people, and after that one, im people go get peace and enjoy better things. - Ps.		It does, however, make the whole psalm reflect more clearly the long - cherished hope of 's servants - the divine execution of the wicked followed by the establishment of lasting peace and prosperity for the righteous. - Ps.
But if we look ourself well, we go see sey e get wetin we fit still do to near more more. ( Phil.		Or we may have already made progress, but when we examine ourselves further, we find that we can still improve our spirituality.
But na from small pikin Daniel start to do wetin good for God eye.		This, of course, was no accident.
But na that one God want make we do and e go help us get clean mind and this na better thing.		Nevertheless, being honest is right in God 's eyes, and it enables us to maintain a clean conscience, which is truly valuable.
But the next work wey organization give us help us.		Our next assignment would help solve that problem.
But when I go tell dem, e just be like sey person carry heavy load comot from my head.		But afterward, it seemed as if someone had lifted a huge weight off my shoulders.
Dem dey join build Branch office, Assembly Hall and Kingdom Hall; dem dey clean Kingdom Hall and make sure sey e good for eye.		Similarly, many loving elders have been able to imitate Nehemiah by assisting on theocratic construction projects or by cleaning and maintaining their local Kingdom Hall.
Dem join the people wey build the branch office wey dey Micronesia.		They have since helped with a branch construction project in Micronesia.
Dem know sey na God fit help dem comot wetin dey pain dem for mind.		looks on such ones with his smile of approval.
Dem no just think about only theirself and wetin dem want.		They did not focus just on themselves and their personal comfort.
E bad sotey Bible talk sey, the people ' sabi use their hand do bad thing, and dem be oga for inside. '		In fact, the people had become " expert at doing what is bad. "
E fit be sey when you first start to study Bible with Witness, you no tell your people.		At first, we may not have told our family about our association with 's.
E fit still be sey Joseph example help Jephthah.		Joseph 's example likely helped Jephthah.
E get one bird wey dem dey call raven. dey make sure sey dem see food chop, even the small small ones.		However, it is who created the natural cycle needed to grow food, even for young ravens that call out for it!
E get pieces of clay pot wey dem see near Ashdod.		It was found near Ashdod.
E good make you carry dem follow body when una dey go enjoy unaself.		Include them in your social activities.
E kill im brother Abel.		His decision and its resulting action cost his faithful brother Abel his life.
E sey: " Thief come our house and dem thief many of my things.		He relates: " Thieves broke into our living quarters and stole many of my belongings.
E still talk say: " Na good thing say our brothers and sisters continue to remain as one. They put their mind for the good news of the Kingdom wey them de preach.		Thankfully, the brothers have safeguarded their Christian unity by concentrating on preaching the good news of the Kingdom.
E tell dem sey: ' Because we love una, no be only the good news of God we come give una. We still give una our life, because una be people wey we love well well. ' - 1 Thess.		He wrote to the persecuted Christians in Thessalonica: " Having tender affection for you, we were determined to impart to you, not only the good news of God but also our very selves, because you became so beloved to us. " - 1 Thess.
Even as things be that time, still see wetin one woman do to fit serve am.		During that turbulent period, he did not fail to notice one non - Israelite named Ruth.
For example, if wetin dem talk or do make us vex, make we self remember when we talk or do something wey make person vex.		For example, if we feel hurt by the words or actions of a fellow Christian, we can try to recall occasions when we spoke or acted unkindly.
From the story about people wey dem resurrect, which question we go talk about?		In the light of the resurrections discussed, what questions do we need to consider?
Get good character.		Maintain fine conduct.
God use James wey be Jesus brother take write for Bible sey: ' My brothers, make una dey patient, until the time wey the Lord go dey around. ' ( Jas.		The disciple James, Jesus ' half brother, was inspired to tell us: " Be patient then, brothers, until the presence of the Lord. "
Holy spirit fit still give us power so that this world no go mold us. ( Eph. 2: 2 ) Before apostle Paul turn Christian, e dey carry body up and na from Pharisee people e learn am.		Holy spirit can also give us the strength to resist the molding influence of the world and its bad spirit.
How Dem Take Dey Carry Fire Travel for Olden Days? Jan.		When Friendship Is in Danger, Mar. Winning the Battle for Your Mind, July
How Israel people take show sey dem no value the freedom wey give dem?		How did the Israelites show a lack of appreciation for the freedom that gave them?
How we go take show sey we get sense, when we dey talk with people?		What must we be careful of when talking to others?
How you fit help this people learn about and things wey e don promise?		What can you do to help such ones come to know and his purpose?
I really enjoy that time.		It was a wonderful time.
If this kind thing dey do you, wetin you go do? You need to do wetin you fit do to continue to dey make new friends.		At that point, you may need to exert yourself to continue to make new friends.
If we dey do good to our brothers, how this one go take help us change how we dey see dem?		How can being hospitable help us overcome negative feelings about others?
If we know where we suppose do reach, how e fit help us enjoy anything wey we dey do for?		How can a modest outlook help us to find fulfillment and keep our joy in any situation?
If we want help this kind people, e good make we ' dey feel for dem, get love for dem, use love show pity, and carry body down. ' ( 1 Pet.		To help those who have experienced such trauma, brothers in lands receiving refugees need to have " fellow feeling, brotherly affection, tender compassion, and humility. "
If you see sey e dey hard you to control yourself sometimes, do something.		If you discern that you are deficient in some aspect of self - control, admit it.
Jacob fight with the angel from night till morning. You think sey na Jacob give imself the power wey e use?		Did Jacob of himself have the strength and endurance needed to contend with a powerful angel?
Later, I come go where dem dey call Melbourne for Australia with other people wey come from my place.		Later, along with many of my countrymen, I migrated to Melbourne, Australia.
Lucy come talk sey: " Even if person talk bad thing about the way I take dey preach, I go still dey happy.		Even if others make negative comments about my activity, " she says, " I remain happy, for I know that I am trying my best to receive 's smile of approval. "
Make we no just dey collect things from people.		It is healthy for us to be generous givers and not just receivers.
Make we see how one elder for Canada learn why e good to tell anything wey dey worry am for mind.		Consider how a congregation elder in Canada learned the value of throwing his anxiety on.
Matthews ), Oct.		Ever Be Peace on Earth?
Na government dey pay their worker money. So the worker no dey collect anything or get am for mind sey person go dash am something join wetin government dey pay am.		Public employees perform services for which they are paid by the government, and they neither ask for nor expect to receive anything in addition to their normal wages.
Na im make for many years, some of this people try translate and share Bible even though sey e no easy for dem.		Although it has not always been easy, over the centuries sincere individuals have persevered in translating and distributing the Scriptures.
Na me be the convention overseer. That time, I learn from the way Brother Franz take blend with the people for the area.		While serving as convention overseer, I learned from Brother Franz 's willingness to adjust to the people.
Na person go choose how e go take protect imself, im family, and im property. Na im go still choose the kind work wey im want do.		How a Christian chooses to protect himself, his family, or his possessions is, of course, largely a personal matter, as is his choice of employment.
Na so e be with Christian.		To endure and reach his goal, a climber must eat as many calories as possible.
Na wetin make e good make papa and mama no tire to teach. "		That 's why it 's important for parents just to keep teaching. "
Nobody among the 10,000 men wey go the war fit talk sey na their power dem take win.		None of the 10,000 Israelite volunteers could boast about bringing this deliverance.
People for this area dey wear this cloth well well		The men wear the handwoven cotton shawls typical of the area
Pharisee people no ready to forgive other people because dem believe sey dem better pass dem.		The Pharisees failed that test because they considered others to be inferior.
Pray make give you sense.		Pray for wisdom to say or do the right thing.
Proverbs 24: 10 talk sey: ' If you tire when wahala dey, you no go too get power. '		If you become discouraged in the day of distress, " says Proverbs 24: 10, " your strength will be meager. "
So, make we comot hand from wetin e no like. ( Ps.		For instance, we are to hate sexual immorality.
So I come go meet dem, and when I dey talk to dem, dem no talk to me anyhow and dem no judge me.		They did not berate me or criticize me, but they encouraged me and strengthened me.
So make we self love dem. no leave Joseph; e no go leave you too ( Check paragraph 13 )		did not abandon Joseph; neither will he abandon you ( See paragraph 13 )
So maybe Adam understand say na one angel use snake talk to Eve. ( Gen.		So he may have surmised that a spirit creature had spoken with Eve through the serpent.
Some people de shame. Other people see theirself as nothing, and so them de feel say people no go like them.		Some hesitate to extend a greeting out of shyness or low self - worth.
The question wey we need to ask ourself na, ' I go fit use my freedom take do more for work? '		The question that each of us should consider is, ' Can I use my freedom to give greater support to the Kingdom work? '
The sword of the spirit ( Check paragraph 19 - 20 )		The sword of the spirit ( See paragraphs 19 - 20 )
This kind thing dey make love and respect dey family.		They benefit us.
This sisters come dey teach us the truth about, and wetin e get for mind to do for us.		These sisters introduced us to the amazing truths about and his purpose for mankind.
We dey happy sey we know. And dey use im Word dey help us for our life.		Knowing and having his Word at work in our lives, we have come to enjoy a privileged relationship with him.
We don see sey this one better pass to master our language. '		We considered this to be much more important than their mastering our language. "
Wetin be some things wey we fit do to show sey we love our brothers and sisters?		What are some ways in which we can show love?
Wetin show sey want make im people dey do things well?		These articles answer the following questions: Why should we expect 's worshippers to be organized?
Wetin two of dem promise come make their children use their life do special work for tabernacle.		Their respective vows resulted in Jephthah 's daughter and Hannah 's son being devoted to special, sacred service at the tabernacle.
Wetin we dey do for Bethel dey help people near. Na this one make me like to dey serve for Bethel. "		I love serving here because what we do helps people to draw close to. "
Wetin we go do if person do wetin we no like?		What should we do if we are offended?
When Philip tell Nathanael say e don see the Messiah, Nathanael talk say: " Any good thing fit come out of Nazareth? "		When Philip told Nathanael that he had found the Messiah, Nathanael replied: " Can anything good come out of Nazareth? "
When dem reach where dem dey go, the bus come stop.		She was curious and wanted to learn more.
When great tribulation go start, anointed ones wey dey alive " no go waste time enter cloud go meet the Lord for air. "		Anointed ones who are alive during the great tribulation will be " caught away in clouds. "
When things hard for Jesus the night before dem kill am, still send angel to make am strong.		also sent an angel to strengthen Jesus when he was in anguish on the night before his death.
When we dey let people know about one public talk for Rochester, New York, 1953		Advertising a public lecture with others in Rochester, New York, 1953
Which kind character fit make us no want take advice wey dey give?		What traits could harden us against 's counsel?
Which people example we fit follow if we want endure?		Who are some outstanding examples of endurance?
Why e be like that? Daniel sabi things well well, and this one make dem put am for high position.		But instead of becoming arrogant and opinionated, he remained humble and modest, always giving due credit to.
Why sister Kristina feel sey e go better if e join congregation wey dey use the language of where e dey stay?		Why did a sister named Kristina feel that she could do better in a local - language congregation?
You fit come dey think sey your voice no sweet reach their own.		Yet, you may feel embarrassed or disappointed when comparing your voice with productions from the entertainment world.
You go get times two if you collect the small one wey dem use gold make! "		If you take the gold one, you will have twice as much money!
wey dey April 15, 2014 Watchtower, pp. 17 - 26 ( for English ).		in The Watchtower of April 15, 2014, pp. 17 - 26.
When your word reach my hand, I chop am.		Notice the effect that God 's words had on his heart.
Example of people wey we suppose copy, and the one wey we no suppose copy dey inside Bible.		The Bible contains both types of examples.
Even if dem don settle down for Babylon, dem comot go where many of dem never go before.		They left a land that was familiar to them in order to move to a place most of them had never seen.
Even though sey we get sin for body, we fit copy the better example of love wey and Jesus show.		Can we imperfect humans imitate the love shown to us by and Jesus? Yes!
If no do wetin e promise, wetin Devil lie about am go be true.		deeply loves and values mankind.
Husband go " love their wife as them take love their body. "		Husbands are to " love their wives as their own bodies. "
This kind thing don happen to you before?		Many have found that using God 's Word in the ministry can have a profound impact on those to whom they preach.
Why some children no want learn their papa and mama language?		Why do some children resist learning their parents ' language?
As things dey change like that, e fit make some things hard for people today.		In recent times, this transition has presented unique challenges for true Christians.
When we gather for the forest, everybody no come at once, dem come small small.		Brothers arrived in small numbers and assembled in the forest.
How young people fit prepare to preach well?		What can young ones do to prepare to give a witness?
Even if we no sure of the people wey Paul dey talk about, we know sey dem kill people like Naboth and Zechariah because dem no gree do wetin God no like. ( 1 Ki.		Though we cannot be sure whom Paul had in mind, some, like Naboth and Zechariah, were stoned to death for obeying God and doing his will.
But for Christmas and Easter time, dem dey remember Jesus as one small pikin and as person wey don die.		Rather, they prefer to remember Jesus at Christmas and Easter.
But this one no mean sey na when person get pikin, e go enter paradise.		But this does not mean that giving birth or having children results in gaining everlasting life.
If we dey do like this, our mind no go dey judge us because we dey do wetin want.		Having such a disposition makes for a more caring parent, a better spouse, and a better friend.
This one go make Jesus know sey we love am pass money or property.		By doing so, we show Jesus that we love him more than any material thing.
Dem use their time do better thing and many of dem pioneer.		To stay spiritually healthy, they used their time productively, many by pioneering.
For many congregation today, we get people wey don marry wey be sey na their husband or wife ' save ' dem or make dem come dey serve.		Nearly every congregation of 's has married couples in which the Christian has been instrumental in ' saving ' his or her mate.
After some short time, the apostles of Jesus ask say: " Lord, you go put the kingdom back for Israel now? " - Acts 1: 6.		Soon thereafter, Jesus ' apostles asked him: " Lord, are you restoring the kingdom to Israel at this time? " - Acts 1: 6.
After some years, eight congregation come dey the place.		Within a few years, there were eight congregations.
After some years, one man come preach for our house. Im name na Bob Atkinson. E play one of Brother Rutherford talk for us.		A few years later, Bob Atkinson called at our house and played a phonograph record of one of Brother Rutherford 's talks.
Arthur come join the brothers wait until dem give dem sign make dem cut the rope.		Arthur and the others took their positions and waited for the appointed signal.
As e dey come back, Arthur come dey hear as people dey clap well well for inside the hall.		On his return, Arthur heard loud applause from inside the hall.
As you baptize, e show sey you don give your life.		Your baptism symbolizes your dedication.
Because of this one, I no stay the school reach one year before my mama allow me comot for the school.		So my mother allowed me to leave the school within a year.
Bible get many example wey help us know why e good make we dey control ourself. E still tell us the bad thing wey go happen if we no control ourself.		As we have just noted, the Scriptures contain accounts that vividly illustrate both the benefits and the consequences of our actions.
Bible talk sey: ' Make better word dey always come out from una mouth. '		Let your words always be gracious, " says the Bible.
Bible tell husband sey: ' Make una continue to dey love una wife and make una no dey over vex for dem. '		Husbands are told: " Keep on loving your wives and do not be bitterly angry with them. "
But after, dem come join me dey serve.		But later, they too accepted the truth.
But na that same day Jesus resurrect Lazarus.		Jesus then performed a miracle.
But that one fit no help dem.		That, however, may not be as profitable as they imagine.
But when we dey face problem, we know sey: If we use all our mind take trust, e no go ever allow the problem big pass wetin we fit bear. E ready to always help us so that we fit bear am.		But when trials do arise in our life, we can be certain of this: If we fully trust in, he will never allow our trials to go beyond the limit of human endurance; he will always make a way out so that we can endure them.
Dem go use plenty time dey look this people picture or dey read about dem for internet.		But many in the world use social media excessively, following men or women whom they do not even know.
E dey sweet me to advice the young brothers for congregation. I dey happy when I dey see dem dey do well.		I enjoy encouraging the young brothers in our congregation and seeing their spiritual progress.
E fit be how e dey dress, the kind hair wey e dey barb, the way e dey do when e dey give talk or even how e take dey talk with people.		Were we to do so, it could give the wrong impression.
E go still dey read Bible everyday, and dey think about other people wey don help to get strong mind.		Meditating on accounts of courage will also help.
E good make we follow wetin Bible talk when e sey: ' Take all your mind trust, no put mind for wetin you think sey you sabi.		We need to act in accord with these wise words: " Trust in with all your heart, and do not rely on your own understanding.
E good make you remember sey Jesus die for that person. That one go make you show am love.		Still, you realize that Christ died for that person and you are to show love.
E like am sotey na wetin e dey always think about be that. E dey always talk about wetin the flesh want, and to do am dey sweet am reach bone.		The one doing the former focuses on the desires and leanings of the imperfect flesh, constantly talking about and glorifying things of the flesh.
E no do you like sey make you tell the person sey: ' No believe am!		Did you find yourself thinking: ' Do not believe it!
E pass 200 million of our New World Translation Bible wey don dey for language wey pass 130.		Over 200 million copies of the New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures have been published in over 130 languages.
E remember wetin happen, e sey: " E first dey hard me to draw body near the brothers and sisters.		He reflects: " I had to push myself at first to get to know the brothers and sisters.
E teach us how to drive.		She could drive!
E tell dem why dem suppose know ' the things wey God spirit dey make person sabi. '		He mentioned to them the importance of acquiring " spiritual comprehension. "
Even if congregation gree make e come back, the person go still ' stand for the front of God judgment seat. ' - Rom. 14: 10 - 12; go check November 15, 1979 Watchtower, pp.		Even if the person is reinstated, he or she must still render an account " before the judgment seat of God. " - Rom. 14: 10 - 12; see The Watchtower, November 15, 1979, pp.
Even if e be like sey Jabin army strong pass Israel people, use prophet Deborah take tell Barak sey: ' Go carry 10,000 men from Naphtali and Zebulun family.		Nevertheless, gave Barak this clear command through Deborah the prophetess: " Go and march to Mount Tabor, and take 10,000 men of Naphtali and Zebulun with you.
Even if na so, make dem hear wetin the old brothers go talk before dem do things. E good make dem dey learn from this old brothers.		Though such younger ones have a changed role, they would do well to benefit from the wisdom and experience of older ones before making decisions.
Even people wey no be Witness still write. For example, one pastor talk sey: " I no be Witness, but I go talk sey, the way una take dey arrange una preaching work really make sense.		For example, one religious minister was moved to say, " I am not a Witness, but I will say that you have an outstandingly organized preaching work, and you have racial unity. "
Ezra know sey this things na for work. So e tell the people wey carry am wetin dem go do to make sure sey nothing happen to the things.		Ezra considered these funds to be voluntary offerings to and put detailed procedures in place to protect these treasures on the perilous journey through hostile territory.
For 2016, na 2,262,646 people go Memorial for Mexico.		In Mexico, 2,262,646 people attended the Memorial in 2016.
For example, Job know sey e no fit talk sey e love God if e no dey treat other people well.		Consider: Job knew that he could not profess to love God and at the same time be unkind to his fellow man.
For many years now, we believe sey no happy with im people because dem no use all their mind and power preach for World War I.		In years gone by, we believed that became displeased with his people because they did not have a zealous share in the preaching work during World War I.
Fred, im husband talk sey: ' Before I marry, e no easy for me to choose wetin to do.		Her husband, Fred, says: " Making decisions was never easy for me.
From when Joshua start to lead Israel people, e write God Law with im own hand.		From the beginning of his leadership, Joshua had a written record of God 's Word.
How take use holy spirit help other people wey later lead Israel?		Explain how empowered other Israelite men to lead his people.
How Memorial take dey help all of us get one mind?		influence the unity of God 's people?
How bad religion, government and business take dey affect us today?		How do corrupt organizations affect us now?
How the things wey apostle John write take encourage Christian from im time come reach today?		How have the inspired writings of the apostle John been a source of encouragement for Christians throughout the centuries?
How we fit use our freedom show how we love reach?		How can the way we use our freedom of choice reveal the depth of our love for?
How we take know?		How do we know?
I de keep all the verse wey I like.		I 'm compiling a list of my favorite verses.
I go fit get the correct visa?		Can I get an appropriate visa?
I no come see dem again, until we come see after some years, for one convention for where dem dey call Toronto, for Ontario. I surprise sey na dem first see me even as people plenty reach.		That was the only contact we had until a few years later when, to my surprise, they spotted me in a crowd at a convention in Toronto, Ontario.
I no fit talk how we happy reach when we go our first meeting after five month!		What a happy day it was when we attended our first meeting in five months!
If na so, wetin go help you continue to be like soft clay for hand?		If so, what additional qualities will help you to remain like soft and malleable clay before?
If sickness or other things wey dey worry us for mind no make us fit do reach as we dey do before for work, e no dey make am happy.		He shows us compassion if financial burdens weigh us down or our health or emotions tend to limit our sacred service.
If to sey I go study law for university, I for make plenty money. But e for hard me to see part - time work. "		With a university degree in law, I could have earned a lot of money, but I would have had little chance of finding part - time work. "
If you do this one you go gain am, and e go make the elders happy as dem dey do their work.		This will not only benefit you but also add much joy to their work.
Im secretary start to read Law to am after dem see one book wey dem write the Law wey give Moses.		After a document containing the Mosaic Law was found, Josiah 's secretary began to read it to him.
Jesus, and the good angels dey with us.		We are backed by, Jesus, and the faithful angels.
dey care for people wey dey face problem, whether dem dey sick or dem no happy.		Yes, cares for those who are having problems - whether physical or emotional.
Jesus really understand wetin God want make e do. When we understand wetin God want make we do, we no go support any side for politics, even for our heart.		When we understand our assignment as clearly as Jesus understood his, we will avoid even lending tacit, or unspoken, support for political independence movements.
Last last, the owner come send im own pikin go the farm.		Finally, in the illustration, the owner sent his beloved son and heir.
Luke show sey all this things wey happen really affect Mary.		Luke adds that Mary was deeply affected by all these events.
Make dem no do anything wey go make person wey no be their husband or wife feel sey dem want friend am.		Even giving the appearance of flirting with someone to whom one is not married is unloving and should be avoided.
Make we no stop to do everything wey we fit do so that we go fit dey change and we go get ' the new character. '		Continued effort is required in order " to be readjusted " and manifest " the new personality. "
Many new elder and ministerial servant, like you, dey allow use dem well. This one dey make us happy well well.		It is very encouraging to see so many newly appointed brothers, like you, making spiritual progress.
Na July 29, 1929, dem born me. I grow for one village for Bulacan, wey dey Philippines.		I was born on July 29, 1929, and grew up in a village in the province of Bulacan in the Philippines.
Na im make Abraham remove firstborn from Ishmael hand, come give am to Isaac.		Abraham dismissed Ishmael, passing the firstborn 's right to Isaac.
Na so we suppose do as we dey live for " last days. " - 2 Tim.		The same is true for Christians in these " last days. " - 2 Tim.
Na the truth about life be that.		That is a basic truth about human life.
No be everything wey happen to the Jews for Babylon match wetin happen to anointed Christians before 1919.		So we should not try to look for prophetic parallels in every detail of the Jewish captivity as if these should somehow apply to what happened to anointed Christians in the years leading up to 1919.
Nothing fit stop wetin go do.		s adverse judgment cannot be kept out by bars and locks.
One sister wey be pioneer for Colorado, wey dey U.S.A., dey use some days work for bank.		A pioneer sister in Colorado, U.S.A., found part - time employment at a bank.
One thing be sey dem go need to learn new language. And dem still need to make sure sey dem dey learn every time from all the things wey dey teach us. ( 1 Cor.		In addition to learning a new tongue, those serving in a foreign field also need to make sure that they regularly feed their heart with solid spiritual food.
Our mind don come down to know sey person fit come life again, even after many years wey God make the promise.		We should be encouraged that a resurrection can occur many centuries after being promised.
Paul tell the brothers for the congregation wey dey Philippi sey: " [ Timothy ] go really care for una matter well well. " ( Phil.		Paul told the brothers in Philippi: " [ Timothy ] will genuinely care for your concerns. "
Plenty people dey work well well for our new headquarter wey dey Warwick, for U.S.A.		Hundreds of workers were very busy building the new headquarters of 's at Warwick, New York, U.S.A.
Show sey you agree with wetin King David talk, when e talk sey: ', I like the house wey you dey stay. ' - Psalm 26: 8.		Show that you truly feel like King David, who said: ", I love the house where you dwell. " - Psalm 26: 8.
Sister Ethel Bennecoff talk sey the brothers and sisters come like preaching pass before, and dem ready to use all their mind and power take preach more more.		Ethel Bennecoff related that the Bible Students went forth " with more zeal and love in [ their ] hearts than ever before. "
So after dem see sey my papa gree, I come fit enter Paraguay for March 1959.		After obtaining that, I arrived in Paraguay in March 1959.
Some of us get special work wey we dey do for organization. Make we no dey use am ' find wetin go favor only ourself, but make we dey find wetin go favor another person. ' This one go show sey we get real love. ( 1 Cor.		If we receive privileges in 's service, we should view these as opportunities to show the genuineness of our love by " seeking, not [ our ] own advantage, but that of the other person. "
The brother no even know say that short greeting really help.		That brother had been unaware of the powerful effect of his brief greeting.
The one wey better pass be sey, as we dey do wetin tell us and as we dey preach, e don bless us and we don be im friend.		More important, our loyal adherence to 's commands, including the command to share in the preaching work, has brought us his approval and blessing.
Things wey fit scatter our friendship with.		Activities that hinder spiritual growth.
This one make im faith strong. ( 2 Tim.		As a result, his faith was unshakable.
Today, many of people dey ' keep something ' or plan how much dem want give, and dem dey put am for the contribution box wey dem write " Worldwide Work. "		Many today " set something aside, " or budget an amount of money, and place it in the congregation contribution box labeled " Worldwide Work. "
Today, na only better people wey be like Noah, Daniel, and Job go survive Armageddon. ( Rev.		Likewise today, only those whom considers blameless - people like Noah, Daniel, and Job - will be marked for survival when the present system of things comes to an end.
Today, we get some brothers and sisters wey before they come serve, them " de vex quick " but now they don change.		In the Christian congregation today are some who were once " prone to anger " but who are now more thoughtful, kind, patient, and peaceable in their dealings with others.
Van Amburgh sey government don try to bring one new law wey go make dem kill anybody wey no join the war.		Van Amburgh that the U.S. Department of Justice had tried to introduce a bill in Congress that would allow the death sentence to be imposed on individuals who refused to take up arms in the war.
We Thank God for Im Favor, July		We Want to Go With You, " Jan.
We want tell all of una sey, una do well! - Judg.		Those who have done so are worthy of sincere commendation. - Judg.
Wetin Paul come mean when e talk about people wey ' dey put mind for the flesh '?		What, then, was Paul saying about " setting the mind on the flesh "?
Wetin be Devil plan?		What is his goal?
Wetin dem tell am?		What answer was he given?
Wetin fit encourage person and make am happy?		What can be a source of encouragement?
Wetin make am different?		What is the difference?
Wetin we go do so that money and property no go chance work?		How can we successfully fight materialism?
When I follow Daniel and Marina Sydlik travel for zone visit for 1977		On a zone visit with Daniel and Marina Sydlik in 1977
When circuit overseer dey visit congregation, dem dey need place to stay.		Circuit overseers often need lodging when they visit the congregations.
When we dey Pine Bluff de pioneer, we write say we go like to serve as special pioneers.		While we were pioneering in Pine Bluff, we applied to become special pioneers.
You dey do wetin you promise?		Are you paying your vows to?
You fit dey think sey you no fit do am: E don ever happen to you sey you want invite person, but you think sey you no go fit do am?		Your feelings about yourself: Have you ever wanted to be hospitable but felt inadequate?
You fit still help people with example wey show sey wetin Bible talk, happen and sey Bible get correct history.		Other people might be moved by examples showing that the Bible contains accurate prophecies and accurate history.
Na love dey make people know sey we really dey follow Jesus.		Love is the greatest of all qualities.
How e take show sey dey judge matter well?		How do they reflect his perfect justice?
But Job no leave. Na true sey Job talk anyhow sometimes.		Yes, he spoke rashly at times, but understood the pain Job felt.
Bible tell us sey make we ' dey think and behave like Jesus Christ. '		Third, cultivate the spirit of self - sacrificing love, which is the identifying mark of true Christianity.
E good make you dey use other things wey dey for your language like Watchtower Library for DVD, Watchtower ONLINE LIBRARY, and Watch Tower Publications Index or the Research Guide for 's.		Make good use of other tools that may be available in your language, such as Watchtower Library on DVD, Watchtower ONLINE LIBRARY, as well as Watch Tower Publications Index or the Research Guide for 's.
Another thing be sey, dem follow wetin people wey no dey serve dey do.		Moreover, they had allowed others to influence them or even to make decisions for them.
Dem come be like Judah stick.		Symbolically, they were like the stick for Judah.
Wetin be the ' favor ' wey Romans 3: 24 talk about?		What is the " undeserved kindness " that is mentioned at Romans 3: 24?
to settle problem?		to deal with disputes?
Wetin don tell us about wetin e get for mind?		What has revealed to us?
no go pity for dem that time.		That will not be the time for him to show compassion for those whom he has judged to be wicked.
Wetin we learn?		The lesson?
Wetin we go do if person for congregation talk bad about us?		How, then, should we react if we encounter similar difficulties from some within the congregation?
Why some people no dey like to sing for meeting?		How might some feel about singing aloud with the congregation?
Young People, Put Mind for Wetin Una Want Do for		Young People, Are You Focused on Spiritual Goals?
Use All Your Heart Sing!		Make a Joyful Sound!
Wetin we learn from wetin happen to Hezekiah, Joseph, and Sarah?		What lessons do we learn from these Bible accounts?
No matter our language, or the place wey we de stay, all of us fit " shine like light for the world. " - Phil.		No matter what our mother tongue is or where we live, we can shine " as illuminators in the world. " - Phil.
After some time, dem come send us go one place wey near Brazil.		In time, we were assigned to an area close to the Brazil border.
After some weeks, dem call my husband from Britain branch office. Dem tell am sey e go start circuit work the next day!		Within a few weeks, Arthur received a call from the Britain branch office asking him to begin circuit work the next day!
After we conduct study with some of our student finish, dem dey follow us go study with other student.		After we conducted a Bible study, some students would walk with us to the next family we were to visit in order to join in their study too.
And if na village dem come from, dem fit no know how to use electric cooker, television or other things wey dey work with electric.		If they come from a rural area, they may be at a loss about how to use modern household appliances.
And we no want make any group dey answer our name. '		Nor do we wish that any should be called by our name. "
Another thing wey go help us know how dey think na to put ear for the things wey im organization dey teach us from Bible.		Another way to become more familiar with 's thinking is by paying close attention to Bible - based guidance from his organization.
Because soldiers dey protect the city, the people dey close two eye sleep for night.		The inhabitants of Philippi slept soundly at night, knowing that soldiers were guarding the gates of their city.
Before Jesus leave dem, e tell dem wetin dem go do.		What would they do?
Bible talk sey: ' Person wey im way pure no dey use im mouth spoil person name, e no dey do im neighbor bad, and e no dey talk bad thing about im friend. ' - Ps.		Speaking of " the one who is walking faultlessly, " the psalmist said that " he does not slander with his tongue, he does nothing bad to his neighbor, and he does not defame his friends. " - Ps.
Bible talk sey; ' use sense make the earth.		founded the earth in wisdom, " says the Bible.
But, we go make correct decision if we follow the advice wey apostle Paul give for Romans 12: 9.		Each of us needs to train his own conscience to be in harmony with God 's standards.
But Peninnah im husband second wife show am pepper because e no fit born.		Hannah 's husband loved her, but she was barren.
But after some time, im mind really come down when one sister draw am near body. The sister name na Ann and na pioneer for Paula congregation.		But she was greatly encouraged when Ann, a pioneer sister in the congregation, took a keen personal interest in her spiritual welfare.
But for Timothy to get result for im preaching, e need to ' dey check how ' e dey teach.		Yet, his ministry would be effective only if he would " pay constant attention " to his teaching.
Cornelius come be the first person wey no be Jew and wey no circumcise before e baptize. This one make the apostles and other brothers to fit do wetin God get for mind.		This prompted the apostles and other brothers to submit to God 's will and accept uncircumcised Gentiles into the Christian congregation.
Dem dey learn about different different religion for class. But Lucas come see sey the textbook wey dem dey use, talk some things about Witness wey no correct.		His class was discussing different religions, and Luca noticed that the textbook contained some wrong ideas about 's.
E get one vision wey apostle John see. For the vision, e hear servants for heaven dey talk sey: " our God, na only you reach to get all the power, praise and respect because na you make everything.		In vision, the apostle John heard 's servants in heaven say: " You are worthy, our God, to receive the glory and the honor and the power, because you created all things, and because of your will they came into existence and were created. "
E good make elders dey talk to children about why e good make person plan to do something for.		As spiritual shepherds, congregation elders can reinforce parents ' efforts by speaking positively about spiritual goals.
E just be like sey dem use cloth take cover their mind and heart. As dem don free from Egypt people hand, dem see am as chance to do wetin dem like and to follow only wetin their body want. - Heb.		It was as if their hearts and minds were veiled and hardened, focused only on using their newfound freedom from Egypt in a physical, or fleshly, way. - Heb.
For Matthew 13: 52, wetin Jesus mean when e talk about person wey dey ' keep better things for store '?		What is the " treasure store " that Jesus referred to at Matthew 13: 52, and how do we fill it?
For November 1948, we use one 59 - foot ( 18 m ) boat wey dem dey call Sibia, travel comot from New York.		In November of 1948, we left New York City aboard a 59 - foot ( 18 m ) schooner named Sibia.
For great tribulation, go use angels take protect im people. But e go destroy people wey no support am as King. ( 2 Thess.		At that critical moment during the great tribulation, the angelic soldiers of of armies will come together to protect God 's people and destroy those who oppose his sovereignty.
For many place, when Bible use the word ' mind ( or heart ), ' e dey talk about wetin person really like, wetin e dey think, wetin e fit do, how e dey feel, im character, and wetin e plan to do.		In the Bible, the word " heart " usually refers to a man 's inner self. It encompasses his desires, thinking, disposition, attitudes, abilities, motivations, and goals.
For night, I no dey quick sleep, but e dey like to quick sleep.		Come evening, I was inclined to stay up; she wanted to go to bed early.
For the next topic, we go talk about how treat King Ahab for Israel and wetin happen to apostle Peter for Syrian Antioch.		In the next article, we will examine 's dealings with Israel 's King Ahab as well as the apostle Peter 's experience in Syrian Antioch.
From when e dey small, e like to dey read Bible.		From childhood, he loved reading the Bible.
Get Strong Faith for Wetin You Dey Wait For, Oct.		Do Not Let Your Hands Drop Down, " Sept.
God go use im Kingdom take make people get the better things wey Jesus sacrifice go do for dem.		God 's Kingdom will be used to apply the benefits of the ransom to obedient mankind.
Hannah promise sey the pikin wey e go born go be Nazirite all im life. This one mean sey the pikin go use all im life do only work till e die. - Num.		According to Hannah 's vow, her child would become a lifelong Nazirite, meaning that he was to be singled out, dedicated, and separated for 's sacred service. - Num.
How I take enter this kind wahala?		How did I come to be in this predicament?
How the governing body take encourage Philip?		How did the first - century governing body encourage Philip?
How we go take copy example so that we no go be like the scribe and Pharisee people?		How can we avoid the attitude of the scribes and Pharisees and imitate?
How we take know? Make we see some example.		Reflect on some evidence of that.
How you fit help your children if you no dey speak their language well?		How can you help your children if your language ability is limited?
I don pass 90 years and my work na to give advice wey go help brothers and sisters for Bethel.		I am now over 90 years of age, and my job is to encourage members of the Bethel family as a spiritual shepherd.
I don see say no be skin color de make people hate other people.		The other customer left quickly without using the facilities.
If we too like money and property, e fit hard us sey we no go join politics.		When money and the things we own are very important to us, we may find it hard to stay neutral.
If we want worship the way e want, we go use all our mind, and our power take love am and na only am we go worship.		For our worship to be acceptable to him, we too must give him exclusive devotion and love him with our complete heart, mind, and strength.
If you dey feel like that, remember sey fit help you.		If you feel that way, can help you develop courage.
bless am for wetin e do.		blessed Ruth with a husband and a son.
Jesus self no put hand for politics or for any matter wey fit mek people hate each other.		Jesus did not get involved with politics or other issues that divide people.
Jesus tell e disciples make they no support any side for politics at all.		Jesus taught his disciples that they must maintain neutrality in these circumstances.
Jew leaders no like Jesus at all, and dem no believe sey na im be the Christ.		Their rejection was far more than just turning their backs on Jesus or refusing to accept him as the Christ.
MAKE we talk sey e get one special thing wey dem want do for one town wey far well well, and you want travel go there.		SUPPOSE you plan to travel to a distant town for an important event.
Make we talk about some example wey go help us see sey e good make law dey help us know how we go use our freedom.		To illustrate further the wisdom of using our free will within the boundaries set by, let us consider some Bible examples.
Many times, when I dey study Bible with one family, five or six other people go gather to hear wetin I dey teach dem.		Often, when I share the Bible 's message in the home of a family, five or six neighbors come over to listen.
Maria papa and mama happy well well sey their pikin don give im life and baptize.		Maria 's parents were proud of their daughter 's decision to make an unreserved dedication to and to get baptized.
My mama tell me sey make I first tell the brother wey be the ' servant to the brethren ' ( we dey call am circuit overseer now ).		My mother said that I should first speak to the servant to the brethren ( now called a circuit overseer ).
Na love dey make correct us, teach us, and train us. dey do this things because e want make we be im friend, and make we get life we no go end.		Motivated by love, corrects, educates, and trains us so that we can remain in his love and on the path to life.
Na the right as firstborn wey Jacob buy from Esau make the Messiah come from im family?		Did Jacob become an ancestor of the Messiah as a result of his purchasing Esau 's rights as firstborn?
Na true sey Hezekiah use all im mind serve, but e still do wetin no like.		Though he could plead with God that he had served Him with a complete heart, Hezekiah did for a time displease.
Na wetin we go still do, if we see sey, we don dey get bad mind for our brothers and sisters.		Like weeds growing wild in a flower garden, bad feelings toward others will likely get worse unless we strive to uproot them.
No stop to study and you go get the sense wey God dey give, wey be like gold, wey go guide you.		Continue putting forth effort, and you will find valuable Scriptural nuggets of divine wisdom and guidance.
Now wey we be two, e come even hard more.		In marriage, taking two people into consideration adds to the challenge.
So e clear sey everybody want get freedom.		To be able to do what one wants to do or to live the way one wants to live seems to be much desired by people everywhere.
So e tell Solomon sey make e give the pikin to the other woman. ( 1 Ki.		That moved her to act, even at the cost of giving the child up to the other woman.
So make we dey let the things wey dey Bible help us fit choose the correct thing, because na from Bible we fit know wetin dey think about any matter.		Therefore, let us be guided by Bible laws and principles, for they reveal God 's mind on matters.
So wetin be the meaning of wetin Paul talk for 1 Corinthians 10: 13?		What, then, may we conclude about the meaning of Paul 's words recorded at 1 Corinthians 10: 13?
The answer dey the letter wey apostle Paul write go give the brothers and sisters wey dey Colossae.		We find the answer in the apostle Paul 's words to fellow Christians in Colossae.
The brother no just give am the new Watchtower, but e read one verse wey dey the magazine for the man.		Instead of simply presenting the latest issue of The Watchtower, the brother decided to read a scripture found in that issue.
The love wey we get for go mek us bear any problem wey e allow.		Love for motivates us to endure anything that he allows.
The number one reason why we de preach to people, na to honor and make e name holy.		The foremost reason why we share in the preaching work is to glorify and sanctify his name before mankind.
The place nearly far reach 900 miles ( e pass 1,400 km ). E dey try make e enjoy im new congregation.		Allen is adapting to a new congregation nearly 900 miles ( over 1,400 km ) away from home.
The woman no follow wetin God Law talk as e go touch Jesus, because person wey get that kind sickness no suppose touch anybody.		The way she approached Jesus was not in strict harmony with God 's Law, which stated that a person in her condition was unclean.
Then plan wetin you go do to make am happy.		Then plan to do what is pleasing to him.
This change to be special pioneers sweet us.		The thought of such a change appealed to us.
To fit explain how this work be, Paul write give the first Christian dem wey God choose, e tell dem sey: ' Everything na from God, wey make us settle with am because of Christ, and e come give us the work wey go make people settle, sey, na Christ God use take make the world settle with am, e no dey use their mistake judge dem, and e come give us the message wey dey bring peace.		In explaining this, Paul wrote to first - century anointed Christians: " All things are from God, who reconciled us to himself through Christ and gave us the ministry of the reconciliation, namely, that God was by means of Christ reconciling a world to himself, not counting their offenses against them, and he entrusted to us the message of the reconciliation.
Toi come preach to the woman and e start to study Bible with am. Why? Because e sofri talk, e get cool temper, and e control im temper.		Toi gave a fine witness, and a Bible study was started - all as a result of her calm and peaceable demeanor.
True - true, take care of me as e pikin.		Truly, has been a real Father to me!
We come pack go one village wey near one city for Tallinn wey dey Estonia.		We moved to a village near the city of Tallinn in Estonia, which was then part of the USSR.
We fit learn from the mistake wey people don do before. Bible get some examples.		We can learn from the mistakes of others whose transgressions are recorded in God 's Word.
We go use three small topic take talk about ( 1 ) how we fit continue to love, ( 2 ) wetin we fit do to like Bible well well, ( 3 ) and why e good to love our brothers.		We will now consider three areas in which our love could be tested: ( 1 ) Love for, ( 2 ) love for Bible truth, ( 3 ) and love for our brothers.
Wetin Bible tell us sey God go do don make our life better, and e go continue to dey give us power.		God 's expressed purpose, as outlined in the Bible, has already affected our life, and it will continue to exert power in our life.
Wetin Jesus sacrifice do?		What does the ransom make possible?
Wetin Luke talk sey e happen to Eutychus, and how that one take affect other people?		What did the physician Luke report happened to a young man, and how did that affect others?
Wetin Toi come do?		How did she react?
Wetin dem do show sey na Satan dem want follow.		By doing so, they joined Satan 's rebellion.
Wetin go help us know how dey think?		How can we get to know more about the way thinks?
Wetin happen to Zedekiah show sey dey hear any promise wey we make.		also listens to the promises that we make.
Wetin people go do so that God go save dem?		What do people need to do to be symbolically marked for survival?
Wetin they fit do so that they go win Satan?		What, specifically, can they do to stand firm against the Devil?
Wetin this one dey teach me about how dey do things? ( Ps.		What does this teach me about 's righteous ways?
Wetin we dey enjoy because of God favor?		What do we enjoy because of God 's undeserved kindness?
Wetin we go learn for the next topic?		What responsibility of ours will be examined in the next article?
When I dey use one language wey dem dey speak for Bicol take dey give talk for circuit assembly		Delivering a public lecture at a Bicol - language circuit assembly
When Jesus dey this earth, e show sey e get the kind mind wey im Father get. E show am for wetin e talk and wetin e do.		s tender empathy was perfectly expressed in the words and actions of his compassionate Son, Jesus, when he was on earth.
When dem dey with us, we no dey treat dem like sey dem be god or angel.		We do not idolize well - known representatives of the Christian congregation or react in their presence as if angels were standing nearby.
When the brothers for Philippi read Paul letter, wetin come dey their mind? Dem remember wetin happen to am, and how dem no take put mind sey go do wetin e do.		No doubt when the brothers in Philippi read Paul 's letter to them, they remembered what had happened to him and how none of them had expected to take action in the way that he did.
When you enter our website, you go see one place for bottom wey dem write " Things Wey You Go Do if You Want Use This Website. " We talk for there sey make anybody " no carry anything wey we get for our website go put for another website whether na website wey dem dey share video or na website wey people dey chat or any other website for Internet. "		As is clearly stated in those Terms, no one is permitted to " post artwork, electronic publications, trademarks, music, photos, videos, or articles from this website on the Internet ( any website, file - sharing site, video - sharing site, or social network ). "
Who tell you sey e no good? "		Why condemn having sex outside marriage? "
Why e good make we use our mind wait for to do something?		Why must we be willing to accept the need to wait for to act?
no go forget this your person wey die. E know everything about am and e go bring am come life again. I pray sey this one go dey make your mind come down.		May you find comfort in knowing that your dear one is safe in the memory of God, who will remember every detail about him and bring him back again.
Israel people make una hear o: our God na one. ' - DEUT.		Listen, O Israel: our God is one. " - DEUT.
Why you believe am? '		Why do you believe it? '
This brothers and sisters come from different place.		These culturally diverse congregations in Asia Minor needed encouragement and guidance.
Where the two women carry the container go?		Where do the women with wings take the ephah container?
No leader be like Jesus.		No other leader provided such convincing evidence.
To help God people for the whole world na better thing. And na still better thing to do work with people wey love am. This world no fit give us anything wey better reach that one.		Nothing that this old system of things offers can compare with the wonderful privilege of working with faithful men and women in behalf of God 's people around the world.
Before this time, Jesus don pray say make e disciples no be part of this world. And e still teach them the same lesson from wetin later happen that night.		This powerful lesson was in harmony with what Jesus prayed about earlier that night - they must be no part of the world.
E do wetin God want even though sey e go die.		In fact, his obedience to God 's Word went as far as submitting to death on a torture stake.
Solomon write for Bible sey: ' Anytime wey you promise God something, no waste time do am, because e no dey happy with people wey no get sense.		Later, Solomon was inspired to write: " Whenever you make a vow to God, do not delay to pay it, for he finds no pleasure in the stupid ones.
go remove everything wey dey make condition bad for us today.		He will do the same for all the other distressful conditions that make life miserable today.
How Jesus take show sey e dey copy im Father?		In what way did Jesus resemble his Father?
How we go take do am?		How can we reach our goal?
Wetin you fit learn from Philippians 4: 11 - 13?		What can you learn from Philippians 4: 11 - 13?
Which place dey sweet you pass to read for Bible?		What is your favorite portion of the Hebrew Scriptures?
Thess. 5: 17 ) Bible and God spirit fit help us if we no dey miss meeting and if we dey prepare before we go. ( Heb.		We also benefit from God 's Word and his holy spirit when we prepare for and attend congregation meetings.
Cry With People Wey Dey Cry '		Weep With Those Who Weep "
For Psalm 136, na twenty six times dem write the word: ' Im love wey no dey fail, no dey ever end. '		Twenty - six times in Psalm 136, we find the refrain " his loyal love endures forever. "
You think sey go really choose any of this people to lead im people?		Could really choose any of those men to lead his people?
Yes, Timothy care about people.		Yes, Timothy cared about people.
No Let Anything Make You Miss Wetin God Promise		Let Nothing Deprive You of the Prize
You no think sey this word go don give Jesus mind to do the work wey im Father give am?		How those words must have strengthened Jesus throughout his earthly ministry!
Wetin Paul talk make sense and e good to use!		Such logic is very reasonable and effective!
Why e good to think about wetin we dey read for Bible?		Why is meditation important?
I Get Hope for God "		I Have Hope Toward God "
And na animal skin be their paper that time and e cost.		In addition, the materials on which the copyists wrote ( vellum or parchment ) were costly.
And some people fit hate us because we no come from their place.		Some of those are openly wicked; others are impostors, hiding what they do under an appearance of righteousness.
Araceli: That time I dey 14 years, Lauri dey 12 years, and Ramoni dey 10 years.		Araceli: At that time I was 14 years old, Lauri was 12, and Ramoni was 10.
As e dey give the talk, e dey use im hand demonstrate and e dey waka for the platform. After e read one place for Bible, e go use another place take explain am. So the man wey dey listen come dey understand the truth wey dey Bible.		As the speaker delivers his lecture, he moves across the platform, gesturing freely, methodically building one scripture on another and opening up the man 's ears of understanding to Bible truths.
Babylon people give dem small chance to do wetin dem want.		Their captors allowed them to administer their own affairs to some extent.
Before, na im be the overseer for the Service Department for that branch.		Until recently, he was the overseer of the Service Department.
Before God tell Noah to build ark, e don pass 500 years wey Noah don dey do wetin God like.		After Noah had walked with God for more than five centuries, told him to build an ark for the saving of human and animal life.
Before e build im house, e first sitdown think about wetin fit happen.		Thinking ahead about what could happen, that man built his house on rock.
But Hans no be like that before.		But Hans was not always meek.
But Jacob na person wey ready to face anything, and e really show sey e no go run when problem come!		But he was a very determined contender, and he proved that he would not turn aside from the challenge!
But wey make dem, give all of dem name.		But the Creator gives all of them a name or a designation.
But dem come tell us sey: ' If una go another country go do work, e go make us happy! '		Nadine admits: " The thought of being separated from the children made me hesitate, but they told us: ' If you move abroad to serve as need - greaters, we will be proud of you! '
But e go easy for young people if dem don already plan wetin dem want do for their mind.		Youths, you can make it easier for yourselves if you have a good idea where you want to go in life.
But e still dey Livija mind to do more for. So e come fill Bethel form and dem invite come Bethel for 1971.		She wanted to do as much as she could in 's service, so she applied for Bethel and was invited to come in 1971.
But the way e do am, make David see sey wetin e do really bad. And that one come make David repent. - 2 Sam.		Nathan delivered God 's message but in a way that helped David grasp the gravity of his errors and moved him to take action. - 2 Sam.
But we happy sey many of our brothers and sisters wey don marry dey let wetin dey Bible help dem so that this kind thing no go dey cause problem.		However, it is commendable that the vast majority of Christian married couples find mutually acceptable solutions for all such problems because they let God guide them.
Dem ask their pikin sey: " Aeroplane resemble bird no be so?		Airplanes look just like birds, " they said.
Dem dey always get am for mind. " The book still talk sey, when Witness people see person wey dey hungry, person wey no happy, and person wey no well, dem dey try help the person. But that one no mean sey dem no go still preach to the person about wetin fit save am when the world go end because na wetin carry dem come be that.		Referring to statements made by a Witness, the author continues: " When they encounter hunger, loneliness, and ill health, they try to help,. but they never forget that their primary task is delivering a spiritual message about the coming end of the world and the necessity for salvation. "
Dem know wetin matter pass; dem no ready to serve any other god. - Dan.		Their priorities were clear; there was no room in their worship for compromise. - Dan.
Dem no even know sey the program want start. This one mean sey dem no know wetin dey happen, sey time don reach, sey chairman dey the platform, and sey other people don sitdown.		They have evidently failed to keep on the watch as to what time it is and what is taking place around them - the chairman is on the platform, the music is playing, and the audience is seated.
Dem still dey give people some part of the Bible wey dem use hand write. Dem try well well for this work!		Their efforts marked a real turning point, sparking a renewed interest in God 's Word among the people.
Didier, wey we talk about before, talk sey: " We dey train ourself when we go place wey need more publishers.		As Didier, mentioned before, puts it, " serving where the need is greater is good training for the future! "
E clear sey Joseph want do something about im condition, no be so?		Were Joseph 's words those of a man who passively accepted his situation?
E dey our hand to choose whether we go ' let ' sin rule or we no go let am rule. Na im make we suppose know whether e really dey our mind to let sin rule us.		Because we can " let " sin rule or refuse to let it rule, the question is, What do we really want at heart?
E dey try to follow wetin God talk. ( Ps. 119: 33; 143: 10 ) E no dey put eye for wetin im body want.		In contrast with fleshly - minded individuals, they try to bring all their ways into harmony with 's standards.
E get many people wey dey serve well today, but dem no be anointed and God no choose dem to rule with Jesus for heaven.		Today, most faithful Christians are not anointed and called to serve in heaven with Christ.
E pass 20 Bible Student for Germany wey no gree join army. Germany no get law wey go let dem do another work apart from army work. Dem come talk sey something dey worry some of the Bible Student for head.		In Germany, where the law made no provision for exemption because of conscientious objection, more than 20 Bible Students refused to have any involvement with the military.
E talk sey: " I thank for the way e take pity for me and how e take forgive me. "		He states: " I am grateful for 's overwhelming mercy and forgiveness. "
E understand wetin we dey face. And e go make our mind come down when we need am. - Read Hebrews 4: 15, 16.		Therefore, we can be confident that Christ continues to be moved by the anguish of others, to understand their grief, and to provide them consolation " at the right time. " - Read Hebrews 4: 15, 16.
Even though sey Jesus talk this thing, wetin church people still dey do na to dey collect money so that dem go fit pay their pastor and the plenty people wey dey work for church.		Despite this clear direction, most churches are sidetracked by collecting money or by making efforts to survive financially. They have to support a paid clergy, as well as a multitude of other employees.
If person don baptize for another religion, why e need to baptize again as Witness?		Why must a Bible student get baptized as one of 's even if he was previously baptized in another religion?
For 1919, Jesus choose ' the slave wey get sense and wey dem fit trust. ' This one happen three years after Brother Russell die.		In 1919, three years after Brother Russell 's death, Jesus appointed " the faithful and discreet slave. "
For the village dem wey we stay, light no dey, na mat we dey sleep, and na horse wey carry where person fit put load, we dey use travel.		We led a simple life in rural areas - doing without electricity, sleeping on mats, and traveling by horse and buggy.
From when dem small, I dey use 15 minute every day to study with dem. But na only the day wey be our meeting, I no dey study with dem.		From the time they were very young, I studied with them for 15 minutes every day, except on days when we had Christian meetings.
Genesis to Revelation talk about one main topic. The topic be sey: Na get right to rule and sey e go use im Kingdom wey Jesus go be King take make all the things wey e don promise happen. - Read Genesis 3: 15; Matthew 6: 10; Revelation 11: 15.		Interwoven from Genesis to Revelation is the Bible 's central theme - the vindication of 's sovereignty and the fulfillment of his purpose for the earth by means of his Kingdom under Christ, the promised " offspring. " - Read Genesis 3: 15; Matthew 6: 10; Revelation 11: 15.
Hebrews chapter 11 talk about 16 men and women wey get strong faith.		Chapter 11 of the book of Hebrews lists the names of 16 men and women of faith.
Herd take talk - am		Herd
If dem follow this advice, God go bless dem. But God no go bless dem if dem put hand for sex wey no clean for God eye. ( Heb.		Thus they would not ' fail to obtain the undeserved kindness of God, ' which sadly could happen if they engaged in sexual immorality.
If we dey as one for congregation, how that one fit make other people want learn the truth?		How is Christian unity involved in drawing attention to the truth?
If we dey go meeting for congregation, we dey help people for congregation to dey together.		When we go to the meetings, we help the congregation to stay close together.
no give us law for everything. But Bible help us know how e dey look any matter.		It is not 's way to provide a specific command for every situation.
want make we dey do good things for our brothers and sisters.		commands us to be generous toward our brothers and sisters.
Jesus cure the man at once, even though sey the man no enter the water.		Without even entering the pool, the man was instantly healed.
Jesus select Peter make e be im apostle; but sometimes Peter still do or talk wetin e later regret.		Jesus had selected him as one of the apostles; still, Peter at times said or did things that he later regretted.
Make we ' look the bird dem wey dey fly for up well well. '		We should " observe intently the birds of heaven. "
Many of us stop to do the bad things wey we dey do before, so that go happy with us.		To whatever extent that may be true in your case, what is your situation before God at this time?
Many years don pass since my sister talk this thing but wetin e talk, pain me well well.		Her words hurt me very much.
Na because joy na part of the character wey God holy spirit dey help us get.		Because true joy is part of the fruitage of God 's holy spirit.
Na fine chance be that wey dem for use take show sey dem dey side; and for bless dem.		This would have been a splendid opportunity to advance 's purpose and experience his blessing.
Na im give us life, and if no be because of am, we for no dey alive or even fit waka.		We owe him our very life, for without him we would not even move or exist.
Na oversabi dey worry dem. Dem no want make the brothers use their freedom choose by theirself wetin to do.		They overstepped proper bounds and did not respect their fellow Christians ' responsibility to make their own decisions.
One better way na to study " Keep Yourselves in God 's Love " book.		One important step is to study the publication " Keep Yourselves in God 's Love. "
One sister wey im marriage nearly scatter, even though sey the marriage don reach 22 years, talk sey: ' Even though me and my husband dey serve, we no come dey agree with each other and the way we dey see life come different.		A wife said of her 22 - year - long marriage that was at the point of a breakup: " We are both baptized, but we were on two different pages emotionally.
Our family dey always go meeting and go preach to people about the better things wey go do for front.		Attending Christian meetings and going from house to house to tell others about the Bible 's marvelous hope for the future was a regular part of our family 's routine.
Our mind dey come down to know sey dey always judge matter well.		Honesthearted ones are comforted by the knowledge that is always just, for the world is saturated with injustice.
Paul give Christian dem wey dey Ephesus better advice. Ephesus na one big town wey different different people dey live and people wey dey there get money.		To the Christians in Ephesus, a prosperous and diversified city, Paul offered some practical counsel.
People dey think of only theirself, dem no too get pity again, and e hard for people to talk wetin go make other people happy and strong. ( 2 Tim.		People are selfish, there is little natural affection, and encouragement is scarce.
So, for April 1949, me and my mama dash people some things wey dey the house wey we rent and we sell some; we come travel go one place wey dem dey call Middleton, wey near Manchester. Na there our pioneer work start.		Thus, in April 1949, my mother and I disposed of the furniture in our rented house and moved to Middleton, near Manchester, where we began pioneering.
So, make you ' no fear, get strong mind and do the work. '		Therefore, " be courageous. and go to work. "
So when government ban the book for the beginning of 1918, preaching come hard for many brothers.		A second factor involved the devastating outbreak of the Spanish Influenza in 1918.
Some Jew people wey sabi this matter well well talk something about am.		According to Jewish reference works, the unintentional manslayer 's immediate family evidently joined him in the city of refuge.
Some people dey carry shoulder because dem fine, people know dem, dem sabi music, dem strong, or dem get high position.		Some people become proud because of their good looks, popularity, musical ability, physical prowess, or exalted position.
Syntyche fit talk sey: ' Na wa o!		Syntyche may have said: ' I cannot believe that Euodia did not invite me!
That one na heavy load wey human being no fit carry by theirself.		That is a burden that humans could not carry successfully on their own.
That time, na God Kingdom go be the only government. People wey go rule and people wey dem go rule go get one mind, and the Kingdom no go ever bad!		Imagine a time when all corrupt organizations will be replaced by a single, unified, and incorruptible organization!
That time, one thing wey dey their mind pass na to marry. Dem no put ear for wetin Noah dey tell dem, even though Bible sey Noah na person ' wey dey preach about wetin good. '		At that time, people were so occupied with the daily affairs of life, including marriage, that they did not take seriously what " Noah, a preacher of righteousness, " said about the impending destruction.
The fourth thing wey fit help you make you no worry too much, na to talk to person wey you trust.		A fourth way to help you cope with anxiety is good communication, sharing your feelings with a trusted confidant.
The people for the island sabi make friend with person and dem sabi Bible.		The islanders were friendly religious people who knew the Bible well.
The second topic talk about how fit surprise us and do pass wetin we get for mind.		The second article highlights how can do the unexpected by accomplishing things we could never imagine.
The truth be sey, e don happen to many people today.		This is a trial that the survivor may not have expected to face in this system of things.
The truth be sey, we no know.		The fact is, we do not know.
The woman tie the kind headtie wey people for there dey tie		She wears a traditional head scarf
Things fit no easy for you sometimes and you fit think sey the problem don pass your power.		You may have to go through very difficult times, and you may feel overwhelmed by your problems.
Think am: We know many things about Satan and the style wey e dey use deceive people.		Consider: We know a lot about Satan and his tactics.
Use any chance wey you get take tell people for your school make dem check our website.		As you have opportunity, encourage your schoolmates to look up jw.org for themselves.
WHEN Zechariah see seven vision finish, many things come dey im mind.		AS Zechariah 's seventh vision closes, the prophet has much to think about.
We go learn how this things take dey affect us now, wetin go do and how e go take change dem to better one.		In each case, we will examine ( 1 ) how these features of life affect us now, ( 2 ) what will do about them, and ( 3 ) how he will replace them with what is truly good.
We nearly cry when we dey comot for Africa, e pain us pass when we dey comot for America.		The day we left Africa, the lump in our throat was much bigger than the one we had when leaving New York.
Wetin Lamech talk happen after destroy the earth with water. Na that time e remove the curse.		That prophecy was fulfilled when the curse on the ground was lifted.
Wetin help Moses to fit lead Israel people?		What empowered Moses to lead Israel?
Wetin we fit learn from wetin happen to Jehoshaphat?		Reading the accounts of Jehoshaphat ought to move us to examine our own life. How so?
Wetin we go do make we no fall for this kind trap?		What can help us to avoid such pitfalls?
Wetin you dey use teach your children?		What tools have you found to be effective when you teach your young children?
What if you feel sey your husband wey no be Witness dey treat you anyhow?		What if you are a wife and you feel that your unbelieving husband does not treat you properly?
What of for our time?		What about the situation in the Christian congregation today?
When make person, e let am choose wetin e want because e love am.		When began his creative works, he lovingly chose to bestow free will on his intelligent creatures.
When e dey this earth, e show sey e dey copy im Father example.		Throughout his life and ministry, he showed that he wanted to imitate his Father,.
When im and Joseph dey prison, e come dream. help Joseph tell am the meaning of the dream.		During the time that Joseph and the cupbearer were imprisoned together, the cupbearer had a dream, which Joseph interpreted.
When we go meeting, we dey give wetin we suppose give am.		At the meetings, we give what he deserves.
Which better things God favor fit make people get?		To what extent can individuals benefit from God 's undeserved kindness?
Which kind eye the congregation go take dey look that kind person?		How was the congregation to deal with such a person?
Which love better pass?		What is the highest form of love?
Which person example better pass to copy if we want endure and wetin help am fit do this one?		Who set the most outstanding example of enduring trials, and what helped him to do so?
Why e be sey na only suppose be King for heaven and earth?		Why is the only rightful Sovereign?
You fit still read about this sweet story well for August 1, 2015 Watchtower, pp. 12 - 15.		Further details of this thrilling account are set forth in the article " ' I Arose as a Mother in Israel ' " in the August 1, 2015, issue of The Watchtower.
Even though sey Saul start well, e no end well at all! - 1 Sam.		Despite a promising beginning, Saul 's life ended in complete disaster. - 1 Sam.
The old heaven and old earth wey be bad government and the bad people wey dey support dem, go comot.		The old heavens and earth, the corrupt governments and the earthly society under their control, will be gone.
The people wey dey direct the congregation dey respect am.		Those taking the lead respected him, and he helped Paul.
Person wey know where e suppose do reach, dey happy with im work for congregation.		A modest person does not feel cramped by his current assignments or responsibilities in the congregation.
For Israel, Ruth no do any wayo. When e go gather food for farm as Law talk, e put eye for im work.		When in Israel, Ruth proved to be honest and hardworking, diligently gleaning as arranged for in the Law.
Wetin Jesus talk wey e show say we really need to endure?		How did Jesus emphasize the need for endurance?
Wetin you fit do to make your life simple?		What can you do to simplify your life?
Which kind people dey make happy?		With whom does find pleasure?
Which work be that?		What was that ministry?
We fit get people wey we dey try help to come serve God.		Yet, Jehoshaphat 's unnecessary dealings with Ahab almost cost him his life.
So even if Paul love the brothers for the congregation wey dey Corinth, e still correct dem for im first letter.		So Paul did not hold back from writing First Corinthians, a strong yet loving letter.
Na this kind blessing people wey dey like to use love settle quarrel dey enjoy.		Such blessings are enjoyed by those who settle differences in a spirit of love.
Anywhere wey we stay dey serve, we get many ways to praise am.		Wherever we serve, we have opportunities to praise him.
And e dey respect me and im papa well well because we follow wetin talk.		And she deeply respects my husband and me because she knows that we obeyed God.
And why you believe sey your people fit dey among dem? We get better reason to believe sey people wey don die fit come life again.		And why can you be sure that there will be a future resurrection that may include your loved ones?
Any passenger wey dey the boat wey no want die, must swim go reach land.		To survive, the passengers must swim all the way to the shore.
As I dey go the camp, I come hear sey my wife don born our second daughter.		On my way to the camp, I learned that our second daughter, Olga, had been born.
Because na people wey love e dey correct. " We know sey want wetin good for us.		Yes, let us never forget that has our best interests at heart.
Before I dey study the woman, I dey first prepare well.		I had to prepare well for each lesson.
Bible show sey real love ' no be for mouth. ' E dey ' show for wetin we dey do. '		The Bible explains that genuine love is shown, " not in word or with the tongue, but in deed and truth. "
Bible talk sey e ' go protect our mind and how we dey feel through Jesus Christ. ' ( Phil.		The Scriptures answer by saying that it ' will guard our hearts and our mental powers by means of Christ Jesus. '
Bible tell us the names of some angels. ( Judg. 13: 18; Dan.		The Bible reveals that at least some angels have personal names.
But I want learn more. This one come make me dey ask my mama question.		My father did not want my mother to talk to me about what she was learning.
But after some time, e come stop to dey go meeting and preaching. E get one elder wey try to draw body near Graham.		Consider Graham, who was disfellowshipped, in time was reinstated, and then became spiritually inactive.
But anyhow e be, e be like sey Paul explain sey im dey worship the God wey the Jews dey worship and e encourage people to dey respect government.		In either case, Paul likely explained that he worshipped the God of the Jews and that he urged all people to give the government due honor.
But if we de do partial sometimes, e fit make us no dey as one again.		Sometimes, however, our unity can be threatened by prejudice.
But the people wey be Pharisee and scribe come add other things join wetin the Law talk.		The Jewish rabbis expounded on every detail of these laws.
Dem advise pioneers sey make dem try dey live and work together so that dem no go too dey spend money.		Groups of pioneers were encouraged to live and work together, thus cutting costs.
Dem go don happy to learn from wetin Peter don suffer and wetin e tell dem.		No doubt, they benefited from Peter 's knowledge and experience.
Dem really need person wey go make their mind come down.		Their hearts were broken, and they needed comfort and consolation.
Dey take people advice and show sey you value am		Gratefully accept help from others
Don talk sey fit be my friend. E still talk sey ready anytime to hear wetin I want talk, no matter wetin e be. '		Don says that can be my personal Friend, someone who always has time to listen to me, no matter when or what. "
E clear sey like better character pass any other thing wey we fit get.		Clearly, there is no doubt that values such qualities more than any material treasures.
E come be like sey dem no too dey far from where I dey stay because we dey see ourself for computer. "		Because we could see one another, my family did not seem to be so far away. "
E fit be sey you get one problem wey dey worry you, wey fit make you want stop to serve.		Think of a situation that you are facing and that may be a trial for you.
E make heaven well with deep sense. ' ( Prov.		He solidly established the heavens in discernment.
E no dey worry about work wey dem never give am or work wey other people dey enjoy.		He does not worry about gaining future privileges or about what others are achieving.
E no go tey, you go dey see how go protect you, show you how to live better life, and bless you. don give you plenty better advice for Bible.		Think of all the sound counsel you find in God 's Word, and take to heart the advice: " Remember, then, your Grand Creator in the days of your youth. " - Eccl.
E pray say make God help this Jew people accept the good news.		He implored God in prayer to help individual Jews to accept the Kingdom message.
E want scatter the one mind wey dey congregation. For example, e fit make brothers and sisters for congregation get quarrel. E fit still make some people for congregation feel sey organization no handle matter well. That one fit make dem leave.		Satan uses similar tricks in his attempts to divide and conquer, trying, for example, to stir up contentions among Christian brothers and sisters or to induce them to isolate themselves from 's organization because of some perceived injustice or grievance.
Even though I dey fear, I come start to preach from house to house. I surprise sey e no tey before I place all the book wey dey with me.		Nervously, I began going from house to house, and to my surprise, I had soon placed all the booklets.
Even though sey Joseph no be Jesus real papa, e take Jesus as im pikin. And Joseph come from the family of King David pikin wey be Solomon.		Because Joseph was a descendant of King David through the line of David 's son Solomon.
Felisa: The time wey I baptize for 1973, na around 70 people be Witness for Santander, wey be the capital of Cantabaria.		Felisa: When I got baptized in 1973, there were about 70 in Santander, which is the capital city of Cantabria.
For 1975, when dem show me and Angela for television		With Angela in 1975, before a television interview
For example, for Philippi, some people catch Paul and Silas and put them for prison because of their preaching work.		Consider what the apostle Paul and his companion, Silas, experienced. In the city of Philippi, opposers threw them into prison.
For example, if dem disfellowship your family person or friend because e no gree repent, wetin you go do?		For example, what if a member of your family or a close friend sins, is unrepentant, and has to be disfellowshipped?
God answer Elijah prayer, and the boy come back to life.		And it happened! God heard Elijah, and the child came back to life.
How take help David bear problem?		How did help David to cope with the challenges he faced?
How we go take show sey na all our mind we take dey serve?		What does it mean to serve with a complete heart?
How we go take show sey we dey worship as ' one '?		How can we show that we worship as " one "?
I dey travel with bus or one motor wey dem dey call jeepney; sometimes I dey use boat, if na island we dey go.		Bathing facilities lacked privacy, so I learned to bathe modestly out in the open. I traveled by jeepney and bus and sometimes by boat when going to other islands.
I go fit join do this work? '		Would I be able to share in it? '
I no too happy to leave our family, the congregation, the house wey we dey stay, the different different place for our area, and the things wey we dey do everyday.		I was anxious about leaving behind our family, congregation, apartment, all the familiar places, and our routine.
If e dey think well before e choose wetin e want do, and the thing come get head, that one show sey e don really get better sense.		If his decisions result in success, reflecting careful forethought, it becomes clear that he has manifested practical wisdom.
If we put am for mind, e go help us fit face the great tribulation wey dey come so that we fit enter Paradise. Make we no stop to dey worship only.		Our taking those words to heart will empower us to face the great tribulation just ahead and contribute to the Paradise to follow.
If you dey read Bible, e go make you do things wey go make you happy more more. E go make you and be tight friend and e go make you help other people to serve.		Your reading of the Word of God may move you to take action that will increase your happiness and strengthen your friendship with God as well as spur you on to help others to search for God.
If you feel sey e go hard you to explain whether God dey, wetin fit help you?		What can you do if you feel that you are not equipped to discuss evolution or creation?
Instead, e forgive dem many times, and e do wetin e promise dem.		He repeatedly showed mercy toward the nation and loyalty to his covenant with them.
Jehoshaphat make friend with another person wey no dey serve.		Jehoshaphat forged another unwise alliance.
don already talk about am for the message wey e tell prophet Ezekiel.		in fact, foretold it.
Joseph for use im power take punish dem because of the bad things wey dem do am before.		Joseph could have used his authority to exact vengeance for the very bad way that his brothers had treated him.
King James Version na one example of this kind Bible.		Consider an example involving a Bible translation into English.
Make dem get hope sey their pikin go follow their example and come back to.		At the same time, such parents work hard to remain loyal to, hoping that their example will move their children to return to the fold.
Many years after Victoria learn the truth, e still dey hard am to believe sey love am.		For many years after learning the truth, Victoria struggled to accept that God could love her.
Na so so bad things people dey do for this world today.		We live in a world full of wrongdoing.
Na this one come make us dey show sey we get faith for Jesus and believe sey we fit get life wey no go end. - Read 1 John 4: 9, 10.		So we began to exercise faith in Jesus with everlasting life in view. - Read 1 John 4: 9, 10.
Na true sey we dey make mistake because of sin wey dey our body. But if we use all our life serve God and we no dey pretend as we dey serve am, we go show sey we dey use all our mind serve am. - 2 Chron.		Well, if we, though being imperfect humans, continue to be fully devoted to God without hypocrisy, we will be serving God with a complete heart. - 2 Chron.
Na wetin dey God Word help the person wey write Psalm 119 make e fit dey different.		The writer of Psalm 119 found strength in God 's Word to stand out as different.
No, but make una dey grow for inside the favor and how una take know our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. ' - 2 Pet.		No, but go on growing in the undeserved kindness and knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. " - 2 Pet.
One brother talk sey: " When I dey read Bible, I dey try make I no forget sey e get plenty advice wey I fit get from the part wey I dey read. "		When I read the Bible, I try to remember that there may be several lessons that can be drawn from a passage, " says one brother.
One of dem wey fit come your mind na Jonathan. ( 1 Sam.		Jonathan is one of those friends who may come to mind.
One way na to copy how take dey do things.		We can do so by doing things 's way.
Other song go still help us know how to ' show love and do better ' things.		Other songs will help " to incite [ us ] to love and fine works. "
Papa, mama and elders for congregation don see sey if dem praise and tell person better word, e go easy for the person to take Bible advice.		Christian elders and parents find that commendation and encouragement are effective in emphasizing Bible counsel.
Paul know sey this bad love fit spoil the better love wey Christian get.		Paul recognized that widespread, selfish love would pose dangers for Christians.
SONG: 18, 14		SONGS: 18, 14
SONG: 80, 50		SONGS: 80, 50
Show sey you value your brothers and sisters. ( 2 Chron.		Show appreciation for the fine efforts and positive qualities of fellow worshippers.
Sometimes e fit be March, April, and May		It sometimes includes the months of March, April, and May
Sometimes we need cloth to wear, where to stay, and food wey we go chop.		Sometimes your needs may be physical.
The brothers and sisters really happy with that news!		How the brothers rejoiced at that peaceful outcome!
The different different book for Bible connect to each other.		The individual books of the Bible are interconnected.
The first time when I see am na for August 1974 when e come visit my sister.		One day in August 1974, she visited my sister 's home, which is where we first met.
The shield wey Roman soldier de use no de big pass as they make - am. But the example about Ida show say, our faith fit weak or e fit strong pass as e dey. Na we go choose which one we want.		Ida 's experience highlights an important truth: The literal shield given to a soldier had fixed dimensions, but the size of our shield of faith can either shrink or grow.
The truth be sey, some children fit learn how to answer question for meeting, how to handle assignment, and how to give talk for their papa and mama language.		In fact, some children can learn to give comments, presentations, and talks in their parents ' language without the words really coming from their heart.
Thirty years don pass and the sister still dey full - time service with im husband.		Over 30 years later, Mirjana is still in full - time service, together with her husband.
This one go happen " for the last day. "		That would be " at the end of the days. "
This one make belle sweet the people wey dey listen. The next day, Brother Russell and im friends come enter one boat wey carry dem go Liverpool.		On the next day, the travelers caught the fast mail boat to Liverpool and boarded the famed Lusitania for New York.
This white family na good people.		The family was nice; they were just locked into that system, that way of thinking.
We dey use the time wey we get for ourself take find small money. We dey help people gather fruit for their farm, and we dey sofri manage wetin we get.		With 's blessing and careful management, we used vacation time to earn some money picking fruit, so we were able to continue pioneering.
We no go ever forget the school. do well for our body as e let us go the school. "		Attending that school was an unforgettable gift from.
We trust sey e go use im holy spirit help us.		Yes, at times we might cry out: " How long, O? "
Wetin tell Adam and Eve teach dem how to use their freedom well.		By means of his command, lovingly taught Adam and Eve the way to exercise true freedom.
Wetin dem do?		How did they stay faithful to?
Wetin make some people start to overdo?		What has led some to become presumptuous?
Wetin my mama and papa do and the way dem take train us make us love well well.		My parents ' example and the training they gave us had a deep, favorable impact on us children.
Wetin we fit learn from the better example of people wey allow God spirit direct dem?		What can we learn from exemplary spiritual people?
When e be like sey sickness or anything don pass our power, make we tell everything wey dey worry us. go help us. ( 1 Pet.		When we deal with health problems or other challenges beyond our control, we throw our anxiety on, trusting that he cares for us.
Which kind enjoyment 2 Timothy 3: 4 dey talk about?		What type of pleasures is referred to at 2 Timothy 3: 4?
Which kind thinking fit make us miss advice wey dey some of the many many things wey don give us?		What could cause us to miss out on the benefits of some of 's provisions?
Why e no good to play with the better things wey don give us?		Why must we safeguard our spiritual treasures?
Why people wey like money no dey really happy?		Why does a love of money not bring happiness?
You dey do everything wey you fit do, to put mind for things wey concern God and im Kingdom?		Are you doing everything you can to remain spiritually alert?
You fit think of some things wey don change for your language?		Perhaps you can think of examples of how a language that you speak has changed.
If we want show sey we no support dem, mek we no dey think sey one side better pass the other side.		If we want to remain neutral, we should avoid feeling that one side is right or is better than another.
How apostle Paul take show sey e value people life like?		How did the apostle Paul show that he shared God 's view of life?
Wetin one sister and im husband gain as dem follow wetin talk?		How did one family benefit from the parents ' obedience to?
How God take do am?		How?
How take dey see all of us?		What does think about humans?
E sweet well well to hear as im people dey use song praise am.		was no doubt pleased to hear his worshippers enthusiastically praising him in song.
God send im angel to go save Lot.		God sent angels to rescue Lot.
New things wey happen fit still make us change wetin we don choose.		Or new information may provide us with a valid reason to adjust a decision.
People wey go follow am, go be people wey come from ' the whole world. '		Disciples are to be made " of people of all the nations. "
Wetin do dem, na wetin dem suppose get from the bad thing wey dem do.		In doing so, justly made them face the consequences of their own decision.
Plenty People Accept the Truth!		An Abundant Harvest!
But make we no dey talk sey we love people only for mouth when we know sey we suppose do something.		Rather, it means that our love must not be limited to words, especially when the circumstances call for action.
The baptism wey John do, wetin e mean? ( b ) Which special baptism John do?		Explain the significance of John 's baptism. ( b ) What unique baptism did John perform?
No matter wetin we dey do for now, the chance wey we get to follow waka na better gift wey no suppose reach us.		Whatever our place right now, walking with is in itself a wonderful and matchless privilege.
After e don talk about children wey no go dey obey their papa and mama, e come talk about people wey no go sabi thank person.		Fittingly, unthankful follows " disobedient to parents " because it describes the attitude of those who lack appreciation for the kindnesses shown to them by others.
As Noah know God well, how that one take help am?		In what ways did accurate knowledge of God protect Noah?
As Olive Matthews take talk am		As told by Olive Matthews
As dem reject Jesus and kill am, how e go take be " the main stone for the corner of the building "?		If Jesus was rejected and killed, how could he become " the chief cornerstone "?
As e be sey e don travel with some of dem for many years, e know their mistake, but e still talk better things about dem.		He had traveled with some of them for years and undoubtedly knew their faults, but he said good things about them.
As you dey work with other brothers and sisters, belle go dey sweet you. You go still learn many things.		As in other forms of sacred service, the association with fellow workers is a joy.
Because e go leave im work, the better house wey e dey stay, and travel go another place. E go stay for the city wey e run go until the high priest die. * ( Num.		He had to leave behind his previous employment, the comforts of home, and the freedom to travel - until the death of the high priest.
Before, we be God enemy because dem born us for sin.		In our sinful state, from birth we were enemies of God.
But I come learn one important lesson say: Good brothers go always dey to help you, if you gree make them help you.		In time, though, I realized something important. There will always be good brothers who can help you - if you let them help you.
But I stop for some time.		Soon, though, I had to stop for a short time.
But Zedekiah no do wetin e promise.		However, Zedekiah did not keep his sworn oath.
But after six years, two of dem come face one problem.		Six years later, though, the couple faced a challenge.
But around the time wey im work go finish, e don tire and sleep fit catch am that time.		He becomes most weary and apt to fall asleep just before the end of his watch.
But e no be like that for plenty place today.		Today, this is not the custom in many places.
But some never still stand well. Make we dey patient with dem and still dey help dem.		The genuineness of our love can be tested by the Bible 's command to " support the weak, be patient toward all. "
But when I dey around 12 years, I come be unbaptize publisher and since that time, I dey always go preaching.		However, when I was about 12, I became a Kingdom publisher and regularly shared in the field ministry from then on.
Charles born three girls wey dey about 9 to 13 years and dem dey group wey dey use Lingala language for meeting.		Charles, a father of three girls ranging from 9 to 13 years of age, attends a Lingala - speaking group.
Dem come start to dey get leaders or oga. But Jesus don tell im disciples before sey: ' All of una na brothers. '		A clergy class was taking shape, although Jesus had said to his followers: " All of you are brothers. "
Dem dey happy as dem dey go because God give dem the chance to suffer for Jesus name. "		Obviously, they were not rejoicing over the flogging they had received.
Dem go do well if we ' teach dem wetin good. ' - Prov.		By means of " good instruction, " mature Christians can help new ones to make spiritual progress. - Prov.
Dem go need to try well well so that their plan go work.		In like manner, brothers and sisters who desire to serve as pioneers, as Bethelites, or as Kingdom Hall construction volunteers do well to stretch forward to attain their goals.
Dem no need am? E no make sense?		Did it rob Adam and Eve of their freedom?
E advice new elders and ministerial servants sey: " Love the brothers.		Focus on their needs rather than on the administrative side of things. "
E be like sey na Arimathea still be Ramah. But today na Rentis ( Rantis ) dem dey call am.		Arimathea is likely identified with Ramah, modern - day Rentis ( Rantis ).
E come go tell elders again, and dem use Bible take advice am.		Again he spoke to several elders, all of whom gave him Scriptural advice.
E dey talk about matter wey the two people wey get quarrel fit settle by theirself.		He was speaking of matters that can be settled between those directly involved.
E don nearly reach 60 years and e don marry. E talk sey: " E really dey sweet us to preach for where Witness no too many. We don fit preach to many people wey never hear the message before.		It gives us tremendous satisfaction to serve at the front line, so to speak, and to share the truth with so many people who have never heard about it before, " says Rudy, a married brother in his late 50 ' s from the Netherlands.
E don reach about 6,000 years wey human being don dey suffer. And this world wey Satan dey control go soon end.		After some 6,000 years of human misery, Satan 's world is coming to its end.
E fit dey hard you to talk to the person face to face. If na so, you fit write wetin you want talk put for card, e - mail, text message, or letter.		If you find it difficult to say something in person, it may be easier to provide consolation by means of a sympathy card, an e - mail, a text message, or a letter.
E fit never mature reach to do the work wey dey inside marriage.		He may not be mature enough to take on the responsibilities of married life.
E get one brother wey im name na David. The brother na elder.		Don 't just tough it out, " says David, an elder.
E no do am because of wetin e go gain. And e still want make we get life wey no go end for Paradise.		He further showed unselfish love by blessing his children on earth with the prospect of living forever in the Paradise that he had prepared for them.
Even Jesus self show sey e ready to wait.		Jesus likewise has been willing to wait.
Even though sey Bible call Joseph Jesus disciple, na secret disciple e be.		Joseph, though, was a disciple, but he could not bring himself to say so openly.
For 2010, Ministerial Training School come get new name wey be Bible School for Single Brothers. After, we come form Bible School for Christian Couples.		In 2010 the Ministerial Training School was renamed the Bible School for Single Brothers, and a new school was formed, the Bible School for Christian Couples.
For January 1965, branch office come fit dey reach us.		In January 1965, contact was finally made with the branch office.
For example, the person fit come see sey e need to dey use more time study Bible, dey think about wetin e learn, and dey pray.		A loss of privileges, for example, can help a person realize how important it is for him to focus more on personal Bible study, meditation, and prayer.
For their eye the member wey dem get don reach. And their members even dey happy to pay the pastor dem.		But rather than being " fishers of men, " Christendom 's clergy seem more concerned with merely keeping the " fish " they already have.
From wetin dey Exodus 23: 9, how Israel people suppose dey treat stranger, and why?		According to Exodus 23: 9, how were God 's ancient people expected to treat foreigners, and why?
Hanani tell am sey: ' From now, people go dey fight you. '		From now on, " Hanani said, " there will be wars against you. "
How take arrange things?		How did accomplish this?
How we go take copy the character of Israel people wey repent?		How can we imitate the attitude of repentant Israelites?
How you fit get ' the peace wey God dey give '?		How can you experience " the peace of God "?
I dey make new heaven and new earth; and una no go remember the things wey happen before, and dem no go come una mind again. ' ( Isa.		I am creating new heavens and a new earth; and the former things will not be called to mind, nor will they come up into the heart. "
If we get faith like Micah, we go let am come from our mind to wait for.		If we have faith like that of Micah, we will be willing to wait for.
If your answer na yes, e mean sey na better thing you choose. E go make your life better, and e go make happy.		If you plan to be a disciple - maker, you will be choosing a most satisfying career, one that glorifies God.
don tell David sey na im pikin Solomon go build one mighty house wey dem go use worship am the way e want.		has commissioned David 's son Solomon to build an extraordinary structure dedicated to the worship of the true God.
no happy with wetin Hezekiah do. Wetin happen show wetin really dey Hezekiah mind.		This foolish act exposed " all that was in [ Hezekiah 's ] heart. "
tell dem sey: ' Make una no spoil the land wey una dey stay, because blood of person wey dem kill dey spoil the land. ' - Num.		Swift execution protected the Promised Land from becoming defiled, for commanded: " You must not pollute the land in which you live, for [ the shedding of human ] blood pollutes the land. " - Num.
Jephthah and im pikin do wetin dem talk sey dem go do, even if e no easy for dem.		They were faithful, even when it was not so easy for them.
Jesus show us how dey feel about us. Make we learn how Jesus handle im apostle mistake, especially when dem dey drag who big pass.		Consider how Jesus dealt with his apostles ' shortcomings, especially their inclination to argue among themselves over position.
Job story still teach us why e good make we dey pity for our brothers wey dey suffer.		Job 's experience also highlights our need to show compassion to fellow Christians who may be enduring hardships.
John write sey: ' I see the people wey don die, both big and small, as dem stand for front of God throne, and dem open scrolls.		John wrote: " I saw the dead, the great and the small, standing before the throne, and scrolls were opened.
Just think am, Israel people come like fish, cucumber, watermelon, leek, onion, and garlic pass the freedom wey give dem to worship am.		Just imagine, they put ' fish, cucumbers, watermelons, leeks, onions, and garlic ' above their God - given freedom to worship the true God,.
Later, apostle Paul come still talk the same thing when e dey talk to Jew people for Antioch wey dey Pisidia.		Later, the apostle Paul drew on the same solid reasoning when speaking to Jews in the city of Antioch in Pisidia.
MANY people feel sey na their work go make people respect dem.		PEOPLE often define themselves by the work they do.
Make we first talk about why dem build this city dem and how e take dey help people wey run go there.		First, let us get an overview of the purpose and function of these cities.
Make we no let this kind thing happen.		No, we cannot.
My mind come strong because this kind person wey sabi Bible follow me go!		How it bolstered my confidence to have at my side a spiritual man of his character!
NA TRUE sey Bible tell us sey mek we dey do wetin government talk. But e still tell us sey mek we always dey do wetin God talk.		THE Bible teaches us to obey human governments, but it also tells us that we must always obey God.
Na peace Abraham want, no be about wetin e like or wetin e no like.		Abraham sought peace, not his own interests.
Na so e be for people wey their house near where train dey pass, the noise fit no be anything for dem again. Even people wey their house near where dem dey trowey dirty, their nose fit don master the smell.		Similarly, people who live near a busy train station may no longer notice the noise, and those who live near a garbage dump may no longer notice the smell.
Na to help dem see sey get the right to tell us wetin we go do. And you go still teach dem to do wetin talk. - Read Proverbs 1: 5, 7, 8.		Love for God 's authority and respect for his standards are among the most precious things that you can cultivate in your children. - Read Proverbs 1: 5, 7, 8.
Oct.		McLain ), Oct.
One congregation wey dey Istanbul for Turkey, write sey: " When people see us, dem ask us sey: ' Una arrange any special convention for here?		One congregation in Istanbul wrote: " When people saw us, they asked: ' Is there a special convention here?
Paul use Israel people, wey save from Egypt as example.		Paul used as an example the Israelites who had been saved out of Egypt.
Person wey want live simple life go put God Kingdom first for im life.		Keeping our life simple involves setting priorities.
Peter and people wey dey with am ' come carry the boat go back go drop for land and dem leave everything follow [ Jesus ]. ' - Luke 5: 1 - 11.		Peter and his associates " brought the boats back to land and abandoned everything and followed [ Jesus ]. " - Luke 5: 1 - 11.
Since my husband no go dey, dem send me go back to Hemsworth as special pioneer.		As I was to be without a partner, I was sent back to Hemsworth as a special pioneer.
Since that time, we no dey argue again but we dey enjoy to dey talk about Bible together.		From then on, instead of arguing with each other, we enjoyed talking about the Bible.
So I come dey interpret wetin dem dey talk for meeting for dem, so that e go easy for dem to understand am.		So I interpreted, which helped them grasp the truth more readily.
So when dem call me to come Gilead School, I suprise!		So when I received an invitation to attend Gilead School, I was shocked.
Some elders dey go preach and study Bible with people for prison.		Some elders visit prisons to care for the spiritual needs of inmates.
Some of dem just dey waka for the hall because of the heat.		A few restlessly paced about in the heat.
The example of King Asa and King Amaziah wey rule for Judah go help us.		To aid us in this respect, we can compare the life of King Asa with that of King Amaziah.
The sin wey dey our body fit make am hard us to dey watch.		Our imperfect flesh can weaken our resolve to stay alert.
They think say when e come, e go free them from the hand of government for Rome, and e go make their country better again.		That is, they expected that when the Messiah appeared, he would bring glory to their nation and freedom from the yoke of Rome.
This one come make me even want serve more. "		This was a turning point in my spiritual growth. "
This one come mek Job dey sure sey go end im problem when the time reach.		This convinced Job even more that would end his trials at the right time.
This one come open road for me to fit do more for work.		That opened the way for me to reach another theocratic goal.
This one no mean sey to be firstborn no mean anything.		This is not to say that being firstborn was of no importance.
To let the brothers know sey dem love dem, dem invite dem come their house. This one make dem be tight friend.		In addition, they widened out by extending hospitality, which strengthened the new bonds of friendship.
We get different different topic for our book wey talk about Memorial. E good make we dey read dem and think about wetin we read.		Read and meditate on Scriptural material that discusses the significance of the Memorial.
We go still talk about wetin we go do if organization sey make we do something. ( 1 Cor.		We will also consider how we should respond to the direction we receive from 's organization.
We go talk about some of the things wey our family people fit do to stop us. And wetin we fit do to bear the wahala.		Let us consider some situations involving family opposition and see how we can successfully face the challenges that these bring.
We no dey fight war today to show sey we get mind. Instead, we dey use all our mind and power take dey preach.		Today, we are not called on to engage in physical warfare, but we are privileged to show courage by our zealous preaching activity.
Wetin come surprise me about dem be sey dem be Witness.		Then one day I received a shock - they were 's!
Wetin e mean for person to get sense, and why we fit talk sey no be only age dem take dey know person wey don mature?		What is wisdom, and why can we conclude that it is not measured solely by a person 's age?
Wetin go help brothers wey dey give talk to fit use Bible well for their talk?		How can a speaker make sure that the Scriptures form the backbone of his talk?
Wetin go help us make we no enjoy ourself pass the way we suppose?		What can help us to have a balanced view of recreation?
Wetin help am?		How did he do so?
Wetin make our organization different from other people own?		What makes our worldwide brotherhood unique?
Wetin some brothers and sisters do wey show sey dem dey use their freedom well?		How have thousands with limited circumstances used their freedom wisely?
When dem dey there, im wife show brothers and sisters love. This one make dem be tight friend even if dem no know each other before.		But during those two years, she showed interest in others and strangers became close friends.
When dem enter our village, dem carry me, Ilias, and one young brother wey im name na Antonio Tsoukaris.		When they raided our village, they kidnapped three young - Antonio Tsoukaris, Ilias, and me.
When mind dey judge person, e dey be like heavy load wey person carry.		Guilt can be a harsh taskmaster.
When we think about their example, e go help us get strong mind and do our work.		And we can think about how we can show courage and get our work accomplished.
Who the enemy be? Na Satan. E carry wetin e want use finish you.		And your chief enemy, Satan, is using a very dangerous weapon against you.
You dey do wetin you dey learn?		Are you putting into practice what you are learning?
You dey young or you don old?		Are you young or up in years?
You no dey see sey Devil don ' block their mind make dem no believe ' sey this world go soon end and sey Jesus don already dey rule for heaven?		Has the Devil not already " blinded the minds of the unbelievers " about the coming end of this system of things and the fact that Christ is now ruling God 's Kingdom?
Your fine character fit still help you begin talk with them.		Your kind demeanor can also help you to start a conversation.
our God na one. '		our God is one.
Paul still talk about things wey fit make us no get wetin promise.		Paul also discussed dangers that exist down to this day and that can deprive us of the prize.
If we check ourself, we fit see sey we too dey think of money and property, or we dey always want do wetin our body want.		If we find that our mind pushes us toward materialistic thinking or fleshly desires, we should not give up.
But, wetin happen when dem come arrest Jesus?		Jesus rightly called them his friends.
So, nothing suppose make us dey think about sin wey God don forgive.		Hence, we have no reason to dwell on mistakes that God has forgiven.
Jesus still talk sey correct Christian go love each other. And na this love go make people know sey dem really be im disciple.		Jesus also said that love for one another would be the quality that would identify true Christians.
So na favor dey rule us.		Therefore, we come under the rule of undeserved kindness.
Wetin apostle Paul talk about word wey dey make person strong?		What did the apostle Paul say about encouragement?
Wetin be Greek Septuagint?		What is the Greek Septuagint?
Wetin you don gain from the different different way take dey teach us?		How have you benefited from theocratic education and training?
Wetin be some of the things wey dem dey use your contribution do?		What are some of the things being accomplished with your donations?
But if we continue to dey do wetin want and dey serve am well, we go ready any time wey that judgement day go come. - Ps.		On the other hand, by being alert and watchful spiritually, we will be ready whenever that day of judgment arrives. - Ps.
We Go Gain If We Do Wetin Want		Benefit From 's Guidance Today
When we trust say holy spirit go help us, our God go give us true peace. Na only people wey they make their friend de get this kind peace. - Rom.		When we prayerfully rely on 's spirit, our God fills us with an inner peace that belongs only to those who have a precious friendship with him. - Rom.
Dem be like Joseph stick because dem no get hope to rule with Jesus for heaven.		They were like the stick for Joseph, and they did not have the hope of ruling with Christ.
and use the different different book and other things wey we get take do research about wetin you just read. - w16.05, pp.		and use available tools to do research on the material you just read. - w16.05, pp.
After, Amy come marry Eric, and two of dem dey do special pioneer work.		In the meantime, Amy married Eric, and together they serve as special pioneers.
After 1970, when they arrange make body of elders de direct congregation, one of my small brothers don serve as elder since that time come reach now.		Of my siblings, I have one brother who has served faithfully as an elder since that arrangement began back in the early 1970 ' s.
After one week, dem call us make we come training to do circuit work. We do circuit work for two years for northern Ontario.		One week later, we were invited to receive training for circuit work, and for the next two years, we served a circuit in northern Ontario.
After this brother advice Nikolai, e no too tey, police people come call am go their headquarter for Kant.		Soon after this conversation, Nikolai was summoned to KGB headquarters in Kant.
As we dey preach, e good to tell people sey when Jesus go begin rule this earth, all of us go gain well well from that ransom and small small we go come be as we suppose be.		As we witness to others, we can explain that under Christ 's Kingdom rule, mankind will benefit from the full application of the ransom sacrifice and will gradually be brought to perfection.
Before, we think sey the people wey don dey serve because of our preaching, don get the mark wey go save dem.		It was thought that those who respond favorably to the message being preached are now marked for survival.
Book for young people.		Material for young people.
But anytime body do me like that, I dey remember wetin Peter tell Jesus. E sey: ' Lord, na who we want go meet?		However, during those moments, I thought of Peter 's words to Jesus: " Lord, whom shall we go away to?
But make e no be the number one thing for our life.		But our secular employment should not be the main thing in our life.
But my husband sofri help me.		She adds: " But my husband kindly helped me to see that our child was now out of our hands and that we must not interfere. "
But na because dey our back, na im make us dey fit do this work. - Job 42: 2.		We know that it is possible only because is backing the work. - Job 42: 2.
But no be everybody wey we preach to, dey see am like that.		But not everyone we preach to understands this.
But now, when I think about - am, I no know why l even de shame.		Looking back, I don 't know why I should have been.
But wetin help this sister?		How does she deal with this obstacle?
Dem fit want use the chance keep better chair for theirself and family people. But many of dem ready to sitdown for any chair even if e no fine.		Instead of viewing their assignment as an opportunity to get the best seats for themselves and their families, many of these brothers choose to sit in less favorable seats within their assigned section.
Dem need to dey patient, dey always " use way correct dem and dey teach dem. " This one go help their pikin know how to control imself and e go get sense. - Eph.		Likewise, when parents consistently and patiently train their little ones " in the discipline and admonition of, " they are also helping their children to develop self - discipline and wisdom. - Eph.
Dey Pity for People Like, Sept.		God Called Her " Princess " ( Sarah ), No. 5
E better make e find another work!		How much better to seek other employment!
E fit be because e win Assyria people, because God do miracle for am or because e get money and people sabi am well well.		Might it have been his victory against the Assyrians or his being cured by God miraculously? Could it have been because of his " vast riches and glory "?
E fit be say because of wetin Jew people want, na e make people for Galilee want make Jesus their king.		Such expectations about the Messiah doubtless led the people of Galilee to want Jesus to become their king.
E no waste time baptize because e value wetin e learn.		In a relatively brief time, his knowledge of basic Scriptural truths and his appreciation of them prompted him to get baptized.
E talk sey David die and dem bury am.		He mentioned that David had indeed died and been buried.
Even after dem start this long journey, dem still ' get chance to go back ' to Ur where money dey.		Even after they embarked on this long journey, they had the " opportunity to return " to the prosperous city of Ur.
Even though sey you don baptize, e dey hard you to fit stop the small small things wey you dey do wey no like?		Do you find the refining of your Christian qualities now harder than the larger changes you made before baptism?
For example, Ezekiel 14: 13, 14 talk sey: ' If any land sin or e do wetin I hate, I go show am pepper. I go make sure sey e no see food chop, and I go make sure sey nothing go grow for there. I go finish all the people and animal wey dey there.		For example, consider Ezekiel 14: 13, 14, where we read: " If a land sins against me by acting unfaithfully, I will stretch out my hand against it and destroy its food supply, and I will send famine upon it and cut off man and animal from it.
For example, Jesus choose im 12 apostle after e don pray to im Papa, till day break.		For example, after spending a night in prayer to his Father, Jesus selected the 12 apostles.
For the next topic, we go learn how dey help us with the hope wey we get for wetin e don promise. - Heb.		The next article will discuss how further sustains us by providing us with the hope of a reward. - Heb.
For there, you go see people wey get better thing for mind for you and wey fit help you. ( Heb.		There you can associate with fellow believers who are concerned about you and who want to encourage one another.
For this topic, we go talk about why to go meeting ( 1 ) good for us, ( 2 ) fit help other people, and ( 3 ) dey mek happy. - Check endnote.		This article will explain why attending meetings ( 1 ) is good for us, ( 2 ) helps others, and ( 3 ) pleases. - See endnote.
George and Adria na husband and wife wey come from Canada; dem don dey near 40 years. Dem know sey dey bless the good wey person do, no be only the better mind wey e get to do am.		George and Adria, a couple in their late 30 ' s from Canada, kept in mind that blesses good decisions, not merely good intentions.
How and Jesus don take show sey dem ready to wait?		How have both and Jesus shown a willingness to wait?
How take help Israel people know sey life get value?		How did impress on the Israelites the sanctity of human life?
Which arrangement Governing Body make to help brothers for South Africa?		To strengthen the unity among God 's people in one country, what arrangements were made?
How the example of Christians for time of the apostles fit help us make this kind thing no happen? The next topic go talk about - am.		The following article will look at how we can successfully face this challenge, as Christians did in the first century.
How young people go take show sey dem get the kind sense wey go save dem?		How can a young person demonstrate that he or she is wise for salvation?
I know sey no be only me dey. "		I felt that I was not alone. "
I pray to. I tell am sey make e help me so that I fit get more time do im work.		I prayed to, asking him to help me to cope and to reach my goal of having more time for spiritual activities.
If we do like that, e go show sey we ready to near more more. - Eccl.		By doing so, we give evidence of our desire to develop our spirituality. - Eccl.
angel still tell Daniel sey: " But for the last day, you go stand up and you go get wetin dem keep for you. "		The message to the prophet Daniel continued: " You will stand up for your lot at the end of the days. "
Jesus sacrifice no go only make our tomorrow better.		Still, Christ 's ransom does more than provide a blessed future for obedient mankind.
Jesus tell im disciple sey dem no need to practice wetin dem go talk, because e go help dem know wetin dem go talk, and give dem sense wey all their enemy no go fit challenge or deny. - Luke 21: 14, 15; 2 Tim.		Jesus told his followers that they would not have to ' rehearse beforehand how to make their defense, for he would give them words and wisdom that all their opposers together would not be able to resist or dispute. ' - Luke 21: 14, 15; 2 Tim.
Later, I come go Bible School for Single Brothers.		Later, I attended the Bible School for Single Brothers.
Like Asa, we dey help people come serve.		Asa promoted true worship.
Make sure sey your work, school, enjoyment, and other things wey you dey do, dey give you chance to do wetin you plan to do for. - Eph.		Make sure that your schedule ( for employment, schooling, recreation, and so forth ) allows you to pursue spiritual goals. - Eph.
Many of dem plan to do more for.		The brother asks them what spiritual goals they have.
Na true sey some children dey leave even after their papa and mama don do everything wey dem fit do to help dem.		However, despite the parents ' best efforts, some children leave.
No. Because we be sinner, na die we suppose die.		As sinners, the only thing we deserve is death.
No let your work chop your time		Cut back on secular employment
Paul write for Bible sey: " Dem don raise Christ from death. Na im be the firstfruits among the people wey don sleep for death. "		Paul wrote that " Christ has been raised from the dead, the firstfruits of those who have fallen asleep in death. "
Person wey want be elder, go use wetin this place talk take check imself so that e fit dey do wetin Bible talk for there. ( 1 Tim.		A brother who is " reaching out to be an overseer " needs to give careful attention to these qualifications, for he should strive to meet them to the best of his ability.
Pharisee people no dey pity for person like.		The Pharisees, in contrast, were reluctant to extend mercy.
Sebastian na one young brother and e dey 21 years. E talk say: " I don de write one verse from every chapter for my Bible reading.		Sebastian, aged 21, says: " I 've been writing down one verse from every chapter in my Bible reading.
So, e good make all of us dey ask ourself this kind question: ' Wetin be number one thing for my life? I don like property sotey I come dey use plenty time dey find the motor or cloth wey dey reign? I don dey use plenty time dey think about this things pass the time wey I dey use prepare for meeting?		Therefore, each Christian regularly needs to examine his own desires by asking himself such questions as: ' Have material things become so important to me that I spend more time researching and thinking about the latest cars or fashions than I do preparing for congregation meetings?
Some of dem don pioneer for long time.		Among these are the faithful pioneers.
That one mean sey we go let holy spirit dey control wetin we dey think, so that wetin we dey think go be wetin God want.		That implies letting our mind be influenced by and dominated by holy spirit and being in harmony with God and his thoughts.
That time, after e give me sweet, e come ask me whether me and am fit be friend.		At that time, she gave me a piece of candy and asked if we could be friends.
The book wey dem dey call The Life and Epistles of Saint Paul talk sey when Nero gree sey e go Judge case, na im palace e dey judge am. And for im palace, e get people wey dey advice am for matter like this.		The book The Life and Epistles of Saint Paul reports that when Nero accepted a case for him to judge, he heard it in his own palace, where he was aided by a group of advisers who had a lot of experience and influence.
The man come leave the remaining 99 for where dem dey, go find the one wey lost until e see am.		When one of the sheep was missing, the man left the 99 behind in the wilderness and went after the lost sheep ' until he found it. '
The soldier stand for front of Michael and im family when e dey call im oga. The oga tell am sey: " Carry dem go kill! "		The officer was standing right in front of the family, so all heard the response, " Just take them out and shoot them! "
The woman think sey nobody go know, but Jesus come ask dem sey: ' Who touch me? '		The woman hoped that she could escape notice, but Jesus asked: " Who touched me? "
True true, Jesus prayer make us dey sure sey nothing fit make no do wetin e get for mind. - Ps.		Indeed, the model prayer assures us that nothing can stop the will of God from taking place. - Ps.
True true, e no forget to show sey e dey side.		Indeed, she stayed focused on 's purpose.
True true, e value preaching work well well!		Yes, she treasures her ministry!
True true, people come know Solomon as the person wey build the temple, no be David.		The building did, in fact, become known as Solomon 's temple, not David 's.
We fit land for big wahala if we let am happen.		It is still a choice, but a potentially disastrous one.
We go still talk about how we go take dey correct ourself. And we go see wetin we fit do to run from wetin dey pain person pass any correction.		We will also consider self - discipline as well as something that can be even worse than any temporary pain that discipline may cause.
Wetin do to correct Shebna, and wetin Shebna come do?		How did discipline Shebna, and with what result?
Wetin go make us know sey we get real love?		How can we be sure that our love is genuine?
Wetin make better example dey touch person mind and how one mama take do am?		Why are illustrations effective, and how did one mother demonstrate this?
Wetin we learn from how take pity for im people?		What lesson can we draw from 's persistent efforts to reform the sinful Israelites?
When Jesus go heaven, e no forget people wey dey follow am. ( Matt.		When Jesus returned to heaven, he did not abandon his followers.
When Paul dey tell Timothy about im preaching work, e tell am sey: " Protect this fine thing wey you don receive, with the help of the holy spirit wey dey inside us. " ( 2 Tim.		Reflecting on Timothy 's ministry, Paul reminded him: " Guard this fine trust by means of the holy spirit, which is dwelling in us. "
When we graduate, dem come send me and my wife go Nairobi, for Kenya.		Upon graduating, Bethel and I were assigned to Nairobi, Kenya.
Who be this Joseph of Arimathea?		Who was this Joseph of Arimathea?
Why e fit hard person make e no support any side for politics, even for e heart?		Why may it be a challenge to avoid giving tacit support to independence movements?
Why you dey sure sey God go forgive you? Israel people get reason to believe sey dey forgive dem.		How can Jesus ' role as Ransomer and High Priest strengthen your confidence in God 's mercy?
You don ever find gold before, come see am?		Have you ever found a gold nugget?
for your life?		in your personal life?
This one na serious matter, e reach to scatter the congregation.		This was a sensitive issue, one that threatened to cause divisions in the congregation.
Even with all the wahala, Joseph still continue to wait for to help am.		Joseph, through those trialsome times, waited patiently on his God.
But tell Noah wetin give am mind, and wey make am continue to ' follow God waka. '		But gave him information that infused him with the courage he needed to persevere in his efforts to ' walk with God. '
How this one fit help us as we dey teach people Bible?		How can this help us as public instructors of the good news?
After many years, Jesus disciples ' scatter go everywhere for Judea and for Samaria ' because people dey suffer dem.		Decades later, Jesus ' early disciples " were scattered throughout the regions of Judea and Samaria " because of persecution.
So we fit sey, we ' don die leave sin. '		So we too could be said to have " died with reference to sin. "
People wey dey carry body down dey leave matter for God hand.		Meek ones wait on God to correct any wrongs and to undo the injuries inflicted on them.
So make we ask ourself: ' I go fit do like Brother Diehl wey wait make handle the matter?		We do well to ask ourselves: ' Would I demonstrate a similar spiritual outlook if I experienced such injustice?
How the example of Noah, Daniel, and Job fit help us?		Why can we take courage from the examples of Noah, Daniel, and Job?
Why young people de fight and win Satan and the demons?		Why are young Christians winning the fight against wicked spirit forces?
Wetin go help us hold tight for this wicked world?		What will help us to remain faithful to God during these last days?
The truth be sey, some cloth wey good for some area fit no good for another area.		Of course, some clothing that is appropriate in one place may not be appropriate in another.
Luke 10: 27 ) Another way to show people sey we love dem na when we dey treat dem with better mind, dey patient and dey forgive dem.		We also walk in love when we are patient, kind, and forgiving.
Dem Comot Hand From Fake Religion		They Broke Free From False Religion
How papa and mama fit show their children better example?		How can parents set a good example for their children?
But na better thing for am to run comot so that dem no go kill am.		But such inconveniences were worth the effort.
E know which of our cloth go soon spoil and the kind food wey we need.		He knows which piece of our clothing will wear out next.
E no go put the food for our mouth but e go bless wetin we go do to fit get food or money to buy wetin we need.		He will not put the food in our mouths, but he may bless our efforts to grow the food we need or to earn the money to buy our daily provisions.
Which work watchman dey do for olden days, and wetin we fit learn from dem?		What was the role of a watchman in ancient times, and what lesson does that teach us?
Make We Dey As One Like and Jesus		May We All Be One as and Jesus Are One
Adam and Eve first get freedom.		Even though Adam and Eve initially enjoyed freedom in many ways, there were limits imposed on them.
After I read the topic wey be ' Do You Have " a Heart to Know "? '		After reading the article ' Do You Have " a Heart to Know "? '
After dem hear sweet sweet story from their friend dem wey dey preach for other country, e make dem go pioneer for another country.		After hearing fascinating experiences from their friends who served in other countries, Hans and Brook were motivated to try pioneering abroad.
After that one, dem go try to know wetin cause am, how the person feel about wetin e do, and if the person first get bad belle for the person wey die.		Further, they had to weigh carefully a manslayer 's motive, attitude, and previous conduct when deciding whether to show mercy.
After we don finish, to clean the projector no be small work!		It was quite a job cleaning the projector afterward!
All of us dey suffer this bad condition because of Satan, Adam, and Eve.		Those conditions touch us all.
And one brother dey use Cebuano language interpret the talk		Delivering a talk at a convention with a Cebuano interpreter
Bad people still full everywhere.		Yet, nothing had really changed.
Because I no dey do wetin I want do, but na wetin I hate I dey do. '		For I do not practice what I wish, but I do what I hate. "
Because e don dey preaching since, the wife vex for the brother well well; e vex sotey e come dey stone us with packet of tea.		She was so furious that he had been out preaching that she began throwing packets of tea at us.
Because of the sin wey dey our body, we self fit make the kind mistake wey this four king make.		Being imperfect, we too may at times be inclined to make any one of the mistakes committed by the four kings discussed above.
Because this sister de behave well, and the husband and wife really want help people, one man agree to study Bible.		Her friendly manner and the couple 's genuine, sincere efforts prompted one of the parents to accept a Bible study.
But, make we no forget sey we must wear cloth wey go make am easy for other people to fit dey think, talk and do wetin clean for God eye.		Still, all of us have a responsibility to wear clothes that make it easier for others to remain chaste and to maintain God 's standards of holiness in thought, word, and conduct.
But many Christian today dey do like Jesus.		The vast majority of Christians, however, imitate Jesus.
But no be everytime e happen like that. David wey e be Jesse pikin no be firstborn.		At times the line of descent to Jesus was through the firstborn son, but not always.
But we no fit run from this kind people kpatakpata.		Of course, we cannot completely avoid people with ungodly traits.
But what if e dey hard you to study Bible?		But what if you find it hard to study God 's Word?
But when check their mind, e see sey dem use all their mind serve am.		Yet, when the Examiner of the heart scrutinized them, he saw that their heart was complete toward him.
Dem still change " Long - Suffering " to " Exercise Patience " for the English songbook.		Similarly, the title " Long - Suffering " has been changed to " Exercise Patience, " and the lyrics have been adjusted accordingly.
Didier talk sey: " Before we reach this age, we don first pioneer. Then we come born three children.		Didier relates: " We pioneered when we were younger, and then we raised three children.
E come sabi Albania language well well. And e don use am help pass 60 people come serve.		She mastered the Albanian language and has helped over 60 individuals to the point of dedication.
Every night I dey see plenty Germany soldier wey dey throw bomb as their aeroplane dey pass our area.		Each night, I watched as squadrons of German bombers flew over our area.
Follow wetin Bible talk.		Let God 's Word guide you.
For 2012, Perrine come get mind; im and Louis come pack go Madagascar.		In 2012, Perrine mustered up the courage, and she and Louis moved.
For Jonah time, na wetin do for Nineveh people be that.		Note 's example with regard to the Ninevites in Jonah 's day.
For example, our sisters know sey when dem dey go preaching, dem dey follow work.		Sisters, married or unmarried, know for a fact that they find great joy in sharing the good news as fellow workers with God.
For the story about the farmer, Jesus talk sey some people go hear ' the word about the Kingdom. ' Dem go first dey do well, but ' the wahala wey dey this world and the way money fit deceive people, ' no go ' let the word grow. ' ( Matt.		In his illustration of the sower, Jesus said that some would accept " the word of the Kingdom " and make initial progress but that " the anxiety of this system of things and the deceptive power of riches " would " choke the word. "
For there, promise us sey e go make us strong and stand well for im side.		These words also apply to God 's people today.
For there, Peter gather mind tell the brothers sey don first give holy spirit to people wey no circumcise.		At this meeting, Peter spoke boldly, reminding the brothers that some years earlier, uncircumcised Gentiles had received the gift of the holy spirit.
Henry come see sey the only way to help im family start to serve again, na for am to continue to serve well.		Henri realized that the only way to help his family come back to the truth was for him to persevere faithfully.
How Romans 14: 21 fit help us make we no do wetin go worry the conscience of another person?		How can the words found at Romans 14: 21 move us to respect the conscience of others?
I come still see sey, if I no stop to do amebo, I go be bad person wey go make people talk bad about. "		I also came to appreciate that continuing to gossip would make me a poor example and bring reproach on 's name. "
I go make you strong, yes, I go help you. ' - Isa.		I will fortify you, yes, I will help you. " - Isa.
If black brothers and sisters go preach for area wey white people de stay, they go catch them and sometimes even beat them.		If black preached from door to door in a white neighborhood, they would be arrested - and likely beaten up.
If papa and mama love their pikin, dem go allow this world teach am wetin people think sey dey make person happy?		Would loving Christian parents really want this world to shape their child 's view of success?
If your answer na yes, e go make happy and e go show sey you dey really pity for people. No be for mouth! - 1 Tim.		Could you increase the share you are having in the ministry, a work that truly honors and manifests your compassion for others? - 1 Tim.
Instead make you let your hand weak, remember wetin help Jacob, Rachel, and Joseph to dey happy as dem dey serve.		Rather than drop your hands in defeat, remember what enabled Jacob, Rachel, and Joseph to continue serving with joy.
fit help us learn how to control ourself.		SELF - CONTROL is a godly quality.
encourage im people one one.		Not only did encourage individuals but he also gave words of encouragement to his people as a group.
servant fit bear this kind suffer, whether e happen to dem or to another person.		How might a Christian 's faith be tested?
Mek we no stop to serve because person do wetin pain us		We should not allow our hurt feelings to prevent us from serving
Na for England e grow, and na there e start to pioneer when e dey 18 years.		She grew up in England, where she began pioneering when she was 18 years old.
Na for God front and front of people the man and woman promise theirself sey dem no go leave each other.		Before God and eyewitnesses, the bride and groom exchange their marriage vows.
Na true e talk!		We agree!
Na true sey, when person marry and start to get children, problem go dey.		When the wife does not become pregnant, she may feel much emotional distress.
Our next topic go talk about am. [ 1 ] ( paragraph 14 ) Still go check the topic " Despite Trials, My Hope Has Remained Bright " wey dey April 22, 2002, Awake!, wey talk story about Andrej Hank wey come from Slovakia.		paragraph 14 ) See also the article " Despite Trials, My Hope Has Remained Bright " in the April 22, 2002, issue of Awake!, which tells the life story of Andrej Hank from Slovakia.
Prophet Jeremiah like God word. E talk how God word take touch am reach.		The prophet Jeremiah loved Scriptural truth.
Remember the man for Corinth wey collect im papa wife. E do wetin ' the flesh ' want and congregation disfellowship am.		Think of the immoral man in Corinth who went after " the flesh " and had to be disfellowshipped.
Ruth lie down for Boaz front come ask Boaz why e dey treat am well, even though sey e come from another place.		Ruth fell facedown before Boaz and asked why he had been so kind to her, a foreigner.
Scribe and Pharisee people no be like wey value people life.		Unlike, the scribes and Pharisees showed a careless disregard for life.
See how the answer go make our faith strong and how e go help us bear wahala wey we dey face.		Contemplating the answer will strengthen our faith and our determination to endure.
Since abortion show sey person no value life, Bible no support am at all.		Voluntary abortion conflicts with what the Bible says about respect for life.
So Satan de give chance make we enjoy that kind life now.		So Satan offers us tempting opportunities to enjoy such a life now.
So if you want gain something from wetin you dey study, get am for mind to learn new things about.		Fruitful study is more like an expedition on which you can explore and discover new aspects of 's personality.
Sometimes, e dey hard people wey be better friend to forgive.		When it comes to forgiveness, even good friends sometimes struggle.
That time e no go hard us again to get the kind character wey like and that one go sweet us well well. We dey wait for that time.		At that time, manifesting godly qualities will no longer be a struggle but will always be an exquisite delight.
The law wey e dey important pass for Christians na law about love.		The foremost law for Christians is the law of love.
The pikin go come know sey im papa and mama really like am and this one go make am dey respect dem.		He senses his parents ' sincere care, and his respect for them grows.
Their name na Frank and Francis, dem be my friend and we still be tight friend till now.		His twin sons, Frank and Francis, were and still are two of my best friends.
This one mean sey we no go dey put hand for serious sin wey some brothers do for apostle Paul time.		For us to do that, we must certainly avoid choosing to practice the serious sins that some in Corinth had been guilty of.
We dey do wetin God want if we no dey support anybody wey dey do politics or any of their group.		We obey God by not favoring any politician or political group, even when their ideas or opinions could benefit us.
We know sey the person go like to run go this city because if e no quick reach there hand fit meet am. But if e quick run go the city and stay there, nothing go happen to am.		We cannot imagine the fugitive being indifferent; his life depended on his reaching that city as soon as possible and remaining there!
We stay there small, and after, we sell some of our things. Four of us come enter Bob machine wey get something wey be like small motor for the side.		After a stop there and after selling some belongings, the four of us piled onto Bob 's motorcycle and sidecar and went in search of an automobile.
Wetin correction dey prepare us for?		We can view discipline as preparing us for what?
Wetin de happen when love change our heart and mind?		What happens when love molds our minds and hearts?
Wetin e mean for person to run go meet?		What does taking refuge in involve?
Wetin go happen if person open eye kill another person for Israel?		How did the Israelites handle cases of willful murder?
Wetin show sey the problem wey dey this world don pass be careful?		What facts underline the gravity of mankind 's problems?
Wetin we fit learn from the way Israel people take win Amalek people?		What vital lessons can we learn from Israel 's victory over the Amalekites?
What if una no too dey sing for una family, the place wey you come from, or where you dey stay?		What if singing is not customary in your family, culture, or environment?
Why e be like that? E fit be sey dem never get any plan for mind.		Might that indicate that they have not yet resolved in their heart that they should have clear spiritual goals?
You dey let that kind thing spoil the one mind wey una suppose get for congregation?		Do you allow such matters to undermine the unity and oneness of purpose that should exist among 's people?
You fit see yourself for serious wahala. Or something wey you no plan for fit just happen. ( Eccl.		You came face - to - face with challenges, or you found yourself in new circumstances that required massive changes in your life.
Young people, papa and mama, mature sisters, and brothers wey don baptize fit show sey dem get this kind character. How dem fit show am and still ready to do better work?		How can young ones, parents, older sisters, and baptized brothers show that they are courageous and ready to perform good works?
Make You No Let Your Hand Weak. ' - ZEPH.		Do not let your hands drop down. " - ZEPH.
[CONTENT_REMOVED]		See paragraphs 12 - 14 )
E really want do wetin want.		He was determined to be faithful to.
Luke still talk wetin Simeon tell Mary about wetin Jesus go suffer for front.		Luke also mentions Simeon 's words to Mary regarding Jesus ' future sufferings.
Because we don give our life, we still dey enjoy wetin Bible call ' peace with God. '		How thankful we are that grants us " the peace of God, " an inner calm that can protect us from disturbing thoughts and feelings!
Our book dem dey help us know wetin God want make we do for matter like, the kind film and music wey we dey like to play; how we dey dress; how we dey use money; and how we dey treat other people.		And as we read our Bible - based publications, we can discern God 's thinking on many matters. Daily, we face issues involving entertainment, dress and grooming, managing money, and getting along with others.
Wetin we go talk about for the next topic?		What will we consider in the following article?
How Bible take help the brothers wey dey direct?		How did God 's Word guide the governing body?
E still tell the person wey dey teach am Bible and other people for congregation.		She also opened her heart to her Bible teacher and spoke to others in the congregation.
Women wey dey work well well still dey like am when their husband tell dem well done for their work. ( Prov.		Likewise, hardworking wives appreciate hearing upbuilding words from their husbands.
After dem bury Jesus, Bible no talk anything again about Joseph of Arimathea. That one fit make person ask sey: ' Wetin come happen to am? '		Beyond the Gospel accounts of Jesus ' burial, the Bible mentions Joseph of Arimathea no more, leading to the obvious question: What became of him?
After they born me, they come born two boys and one girl.		Later, my mother gave birth to my two younger brothers and my younger sister.
Antonio come talk sey: ' Even though sey we no dey the same congregation again, our friendship tight now pass before. '		Antonio concludes: " Although we now serve in different congregations, we are closer than ever. "
At once, e pray make help am.		Instead, Asa immediately turned to for help.
Because fit see wetin dey person mind, e know the kind person wey we go be as e dey mold us.		He can see the inner person as well as the kind of person one can become in his capable hands.
Because Martha dey stay near Jerusalem, e fit be sey e no see am.		Yet, she had probably heard about it.
But, I no go ever stop to be ' Jesus soldier. ' - 2 Tim.		Nevertheless, I am as determined as ever to be a " soldier of Christ. " - 2 Tim.
But dey use im ' right hand wey good ' take dey hold ' your right hand, ' like sey e dey draw you comot for problem.		Instead, holds out his " right hand of righteousness " and grasps " your right hand, " as if to pull you out of a distressing circumstance in life.
But all of dem fit endure because ' dem believe sey dem don see wetin dem dey wait for. ' - Heb.		All of them endured because they had an " assured expectation of what is hoped for. " - Heb.
But because we no dey any side for politics, we and our brothers and sisters wey dey everywhere for this world get one mind and we love ourself. - 1 Peter 2: 17.		But because we are neutral, we are united with our brothers and sisters around the world. - 1 Peter 2: 17.
But e know sey we get our own mind, and e want make we use our free mind allow am mold us.		However, he recognizes our free will and wants us to submit to him voluntarily.
But the pikin no hear word. E come still dey play the ball. By mistake, the ball come nack one flowerpot break.		But disregarding his mother 's direction, he continues to play with the ball and accidentally breaks a vase.
Dew dey form small small, when breeze don cold reach when e dey turn to small small drop of water.		Dew forms gradually as moisture in the air turns into small drops of water.
E ask dem sey why dem no let person do dem bad.		Similar situations have arisen today.
E come see sey wetin I talk na true.		He realized that I was right, and I could see that he was sad.
E dey take plenty time and money to manage this problem. E fit even make life tire person.		This requires a tremendous expenditure of time and emotional energy - to say nothing of the financial burden.
E get one poor widow wey dey stay Zarephath, one town wey dey the north side of Israel.		Up in Zarephath, a Phoenician coastal town, a poor widow showed hospitality to the prophet.
E mean sey dem no love God at all. "		It means that they do not love God at all. "
E no go quarrel with the sister, but e go help am see sey how e dey dress dey disturb other people.		Such loving expressions of concern may have a positive effect.
E sabi how to use ' wetin our eye like ' take deceive us.		He is adept at appealing to " the desire of the eyes. "
E sey: " This preaching wey dem arrange teach us sey, no be language or where we come from make us get one mind. But we get one mind because we love. "		Stphanie from France added: " The special campaign taught us that what unites us is not the culture or language but the love for that we have in common. "
E talk sey: ' Which time this people go begin respect me? '		How much longer will this people treat me without respect?
E tell dem sey, make dem no dey worry.		Basically: Do not worry.
FOR Matthew 13: 24 - 26, Jesus talk sey: ' The Kingdom wey dey for heaven be like man wey plant better seed for im farm.		AT MATTHEW 13: 24 - 26, Jesus is quoted as saying: " The Kingdom of the heavens may be likened to a man who sowed fine seed in his field.
For 1939, my second senior sister wey dem dey call Marion, marry one man wey im name na Bill Danylchuck. Dem come carry me and my sister wey im name na Frances go their house.		In 1939, my oldest surviving sister, Marion, married Bill Danylchuck, and they took my sister Frances and me into their care.
For October and November that year, Brother Russell give talk for other town and plenty people listen to im talk.		Autumn of the same year saw other towns visited, with good attendances.
For example, some wey never marry, fit marry.		For example, were you single, but then you got married?
For that kind country, person wey be Witness fit see the money wey e give government worker as part of money wey dem suppose pay for the work wey e want do for dem.		In such circumstances, a Christian might view a tip as an additional fee that he is required to pay in order to obtain a legitimate service.
Go check the topic " From Our Archives - They Stood Firm in an ' Hour of Test ' " wey dey May 15, 2013, Watchtower. You go see wetin happen for World War I to all the Bible Student for Britain.		See an account of British Bible Students during World War I in the article " From Our Archives - They Stood Firm in an ' Hour of Test ' " in the May 15, 2013, issue of The Watchtower.
How Jesus show say e no want put hand for politics?		How did Jesus show that he had no interest in political movements?
How Paul take follow the advice wey e give for 2 Corinthians 6: 1, and how we go take copy im example?		How did Paul act in harmony with his counsel found at 2 Corinthians 6: 1, and how can we do likewise?
How e be sey money and property fit mek us join politics?		How might it be hard for us to remain neutral when the things we own are very important to us?
I begin de worry, and de think whether I go take the work and no go the school again.		I seriously thought about taking the job and turning down the invitation to the school.
If Jesus ready to sleep for outside because of preaching, make we self ready to do like am. '		If Jesus was willing to sleep under the stars when necessary, then we should be happy to do the same if our assignment requires it. "
If dem do this things, their pikin fit thank dem later for how dem train am.		In time, your children will likely thank you for doing that!
If na only enjoyment we sabi, our love for fit no strong again.		To prevent that, we regularly engage in Kingdom activities.
If the woman dey ' quiet ' and e ' no dey make trouble ' - character wey God like well well - e fit make the husband come dey serve. This one good pass to preach give the man every time. - 1 Pet.		By conduct reflecting " the quiet and mild spirit, which is of great value in the eyes of God, " a wife may do more to win her husband over to true worship than she would by being too forward in speaking about Christian beliefs. - 1 Pet.
If we get faith for and beg am to give us sense and power, ready to give us pass wetin we need. - Jas.		When we pray in faith for wisdom and strength, will generously give them to us. - Jas.
If you no dey do am, e go be like sey you dey ' blow breeze, ' and you no dey fight your enemy well.		If you failed to do so, it would be like " striking the air, " not fully opposing your enemy.
If you no want put hand for politics matter, e go good mek you no dey watch or read any news wey dey support one side for politics.		To help you remain neutral, avoid watching or reading many reports that take sides in political issues.
Jesus talk sey: ' Nobody get love wey pass this one, sey one person go die for im friends. '		Jesus said: " No one has love greater than this, that someone should surrender his life in behalf of his friends. "
Many people start to dey pioneer when dem dey young.		Many Christians experienced happiness in their youth by serving as pioneers.
Na im make, when elder talk for platform sey person wey dem disfellowship don come back, congregation fit clap if e come from their mind.		Accordingly, there may well be spontaneous, dignified applause when the elders make an announcement of a reinstatement.
Na im make we need to dey help new ones wey never baptize. Dem need to know sey e good make dem dey do their personal Bible study.		New ones who are not yet baptized need to grasp the importance of personal Bible study.
Na on Friday, " Co - Laborers ' Day, " wey the convention start Joseph F.		On Friday, " Co - Laborers ' Day, " Joseph F.
Na there my wife born two boys. Their name na Yaroslav and Pavel.		There, our sons Yaroslav and Pavel were born.
No be to go talk sey na your brother cause the quarrel.		Note what your objective should be.
One brother for Germany write sey: " Teachers for my school believe sey when Bible talk sey na God make everything, na lie lie story.		A brother in Germany wrote: " My teachers view the Bible account of creation as a myth.
One early morning, one sister for my congregation come our house and e give me envelope.		A sister in our congregation, whose husband was an unbeliever, knocked on our door early one morning and handed me an envelope.
Or e fit still be sey na bad advice make am behave like that.		Could he have given in to such reasoning as a result of receiving bad counsel?
Or e for hard you to control am?		Would it have been a struggle for you to control your temper?
Our condition just be like apostle Paul own; e talk sey: ' I get the mind to do good thing but the power no dey to do am. ' - Rom.		We find ourselves in a situation like that of the apostle Paul, who wrote: " I have the desire to do what is fine but not the ability to carry it out. " - Rom.
Paul know sey even though sey God love us, e no dey trowey face when we dey do bad thing. ( Prov.		Paul knew that God 's love is not guided by mere sentiment, and He does not turn a blind eye to wrongdoing.
People wey be friend dey live better life now, and for front, dem go get " the real life. " - 1 Tim.		As spiritual people, we will enjoy a more satisfying life now and " the real life " to come. - 1 Tim.
People wey newly come una congregation fit no know how the weather be for una side. Dem fit like am if you tell dem how una take dey dress for cold weather, hot weather, or for rainy season.		Those arriving from a location with a different climate may be grateful to learn how to dress in your hot, cold, or rainy weather.
Problem go still mek us show which person side we dey.		Our loyalty to God is being tested.
See as Paul take explain am, e sey: ' Na free gift for dem to talk sey dem be good people because of im favor as e don take ransom free dem because Jesus Christ don pay. ' - Rom.		Paul explained: " It is as a free gift that they are being declared righteous by his [ God 's ] undeserved kindness through the release by the ransom paid by Christ Jesus. " - Rom.
So, one young brother wey dey always follow am come learn sey we suppose love everybody for congregation. - Rom.		A young brother who often accompanied him thus learned that all in the congregation should feel loved. - Rom.
So cool down if dem dey correct you and no do anything wey you go later regret.		So keep calm and do your best to avoid overreacting to criticism.
So dem do wetin go make their plan work.		So they took decisive steps to reach their goal.
So wetin you fit do to get life wey no go end?		Hence, what steps can you take to work out your own salvation?
Special pioneers for all this group dey preach for territory wey dem never preach before.		It was made up mostly of isolated groups where special pioneers were opening up untouched territories.
THEIR PUBLISHER		PUBLISHERS
That time, na the law wey God give Israel people dey direct how dem take dey use their life, and dem dey follow am no matter where dem dey.		The Mosaic Law was the law of the land in Israel, and it was the moral code for devout Jews everywhere.
The brothers for Bethel come tell me sey, " Na circuit overseer work you go do now. "		The brothers at the branch office said, " Now you will go out in the circuit work. "
The elders talk sey: " Two of dem dey live simple life and dem dey pioneer. Dem dey put God Kingdom as the number one thing for their life, and dey show better example. " - Luke 12: 31.		The elders say about them, " They lead a very simple life as pioneers and set a fine example of seeking the Kingdom first. " - Luke 12: 31.
The example about Ida show wetin about our faith?		What truth does Ida 's experience highlight?
The first topic talk about how we fit tell God wetin dey worry us for mind.		The first of these two articles discusses how we can throw all our anxiety on God.
The truth be sey, na suppose get all the praise. - Ps.		However, all credit belongs to. - Ps.
The truth be sey, our preaching dey help us and the people wey we dey preach to!		Yes, how beneficial our ministry is - both for ourselves and for our neighbors!
They no want Jesus the Messiah, and they kill Jesus.		Jesus was rejected as the Messiah and killed.
Think am sey you see this kind thing: Two sheep dey on top mountain, another two come dey for ground for bottom of the mountain, and another one dey another place.		Think about this: If two sheep are on a hill, two other sheep are in a valley, and one sheep is somewhere else, are those five sheep a flock?
This one make dem fit do wetin God want. And e show sey na God dem want as Papa and as Person wey dey mold dem, no be Satan.		By humbly submitting to their Creator, they have demonstrated that they wanted him, not Satan, to be their Father and Potter.
This one show sey the love wey get for us get weight. Adam and Eve later do wetin no like.		After Adam and Eve rebelled, made his greatest expression of unselfish love.
To help us finish the preaching work wey Jesus give us, make we answer three question: Wetin fit make us tire sometimes?		To strengthen our resolve to complete the preaching work that Jesus assigned us, let us consider the answers to three questions: Why may we at times feel discouraged?
Today, many young people dey face the kind problem wey Joseph face.		Many young Christians face a trial like Joseph 's.
Try to make friend with dem as dem come.		Strive to be a true friend from the start.
WHEN want destroy Sodom and Gomorrah, Abraham ask am sey: ' You wey dey judge the whole world, no be the correct thing you go do? '		WILL the Judge of all the earth not do what is right?
We come go the territory go preach and e give me small small book wey talk about God Kingdom.		We went to the territory, and he gave me some booklets about God 's Kingdom.
We come settle the matter, hug each other, and we forget about am.		We hugged each other and agreed to put the matter behind us.
Wetin tell Job dey Job chapter 38 go reach chapter 41.		God 's words to Job fill four chapters in the book of Job - chapters 38 through 41.
Wetin Jesus talk for the Sermon on the Mount show sey we suppose get things wey we plan to do for. ( Matt.		Jesus ' words spoken in the Sermon on the Mount give us clear guidance about setting goals.
When e born the pikin, e talk sey: ' Na give me. ' - 1 Sam.		When she gave birth to her baby boy, she announced: " It is from that I have asked him. " - 1 Sam.
When the person wey dey give the talk ask the brothers wey come the convention who go like join for the work, na so all of dem stand up.		When asked how many wished to enter that work, all in the audience leaped to their feet.
When we get problem, we fit see am sey we need to dey patient or we need to dey show love pass before.		When we go through a trial, we may notice that we need to be more patient, appreciative, or loving.
When we respect people wey dey direct us, we dey support. How?		How does respect for theocratic headship reveal our love for 's way of ruling?
Where dem go preach reach and when dem go stop?		What should be the scope and duration of this preaching work?
Who go sey e no like to get fine cloth? We like to wear fine cloth go preaching, meeting and assembly.		Who does not want to have nice clothing, especially when engaging in spiritual activities - sharing in the ministry or attending meetings and assemblies?
You dey really carry body down to follow better advice?		Are you humble enough to accept sound advice?
dem get holy spirit?		empowered by holy spirit?
So make we no tire to dey do wetin good, because when time reach we go gain am if we no tire. ' - Gal.		Let us not give up in doing what is fine, for in due time we will reap if we do not tire out. " - Gal.
Trust and Do Wetin Good, ' Jan.		Love. in Deed and Truth, " Oct.
How we go take get character wey go help us dey soft like clay and dey hear word?		How can we cultivate qualities that help us to remain soft and submissive?
But wetin go help us do that one?		But how do we actually do that?
And we don see sey no be only wetin Bible talk you go teach dem. You need to help dem believe wetin dem dey learn from Bible.		As we have seen, that requires not only teaching them what the Bible says but also helping them to develop conviction about what they learn.
We fit talk sey na wetin e suffer make am talk like that.		We might think that would be understandable in the light of all that he had suffered.
If our husband or wife die, that promise go really make our mind come down.		What does that prospect do for the surviving mate? It offers a considerable amount of comfort.
Apart from that one, people wey dey try use all their mind find God go get peace of mind, wetin dem get dey reach dem, and dem go happy.		Furthermore, those who earnestly seek God are rewarded with the incomparable blessings of peace of mind, contentment, and happiness. - Phil.
If person be friend, e no mean sey e no go fit make mistake.		However, for us to be spiritually mature does not mean to be perfect.
Why some people dey think sey na normal thing if children no obey their papa and mama?		How is disobedience to parents viewed by some today?
As choose Jesus instead of Herod Agrippa I, wetin that one teach us?		What does the contrast between Jesus and Herod Agrippa I teach us about 's choice of a leader?
If we dey listen to this kind things, we fit start to leave small small, and we fit stop to love am. - Heb.		If we give ear to such teachings, we could drift away from, and our love could grow cold. - Heb.
How the story about the prison guard concern our preaching work?		How does the account about the jailer relate to our ministry?
Wetin Paul mean?		What did he mean by that?
E clear sey no be everything we fit do.		Human limitations play a large role.
This one na life and death matter!		Our life is at stake!
We dey sure sey go save us for the great tribulation wey dey come, as e don promise us.		We can be certain that 's promise of deliverance through the great tribulation will not fail us either.
Wetin help Daniel do this two things wey God talk?		What enabled Daniel to balance the two requirements?
When you know sey people wey dey around you no dey thief, how you dey feel? E no dey make your mind come down? - Heb.		How refreshing it is to associate with people who are ever conscious of being honest " in all things "! - Heb.
really show Noah sey im na God wey sabi make person mind strong.		proved to be for Noah a God of encouragement.
All of us get where wey we need to dey show love pass as we dey do before.		Thus, we all have areas in which we need to improve in showing love.
And e go still help you dey do well as you dey serve.		Many have found that serving fully during youth also helped them to have a more successful marriage.
As I dey think about the verse, I come see sey the way I dey look myself different from how take dey look me.		I began to wonder if what I saw in myself was different from what saw.
As e don talk sey e go give us wetin we need for life, e dey do am. - Matt.		He has stayed true to his word of promise about providing life 's necessities. - Matt.
As you dey read, use the power wey you take dey think, so that you go ' sabi ' wetin you dey read.		Use your thinking ability so that you ' get the sense ' of what you read.
Because e go be like when person wey im hand dirty see water but e no gree wash im hand.		That would be like refusing to use water to wash our hands when they are dirty.
Because if una dey waka together, e go use im right hand hold your left hand.		If you were walking hand in hand, his right hand would be grasping your left hand.
Because na the brother or sister go carry anything wey come out from wetin e choose.		That is logical because those individuals will bear the responsibility for the results.
Before program start for convention and assembly, dem dey use ten minutes play our Kingdom melody.		To help us get into the spirit of singing, each of the convention and assembly program sessions opens with a ten - minute music presentation.
Before some people come be Witness, they feel say things for their area go need to change, and na people go bring the change. But many of them don remove - am from their heart, even though say e no easy.		Many of 's have succeeded in moving away from strong political views that they once held.
Brothers for other country don still win some court case because their faith strong.		This same firm stand by brothers in other countries has led to similar victories.
But, if person for congregation no treat us or another person well, e fit make us stop to use better mind serve.		However, our faith may be put to the test if we observe or experience what seems to be an injustice inside the congregation.
But, to dey put mind for the spirit dey bring life and peace. " If we dey always think about God matter, we and go be friend.		By focusing on spiritual things, we gain peace with God and with ourselves now and the prospect of everlasting life in the future.
But Job no know when that time go be. Even with that one, e trust.		Job could not know when in the future that time would be.
But e tell David better word wey go help am.		Rather, he encouraged David.
But like Martha, you believe sey people wey you love, wey don die, go come life again when time reach?		Are you, though, just as sure as Martha was of a future resurrection for a loved one?
But make we talk about three things wey we fit learn from the small thing wey Bible talk about am.		Nevertheless, this brief glimpse into his life can teach us a number of lessons.
But many of dem stay with brothers and sisters wey dey other area for Ukraine. Many of dem still stay with brothers and sisters for Russia.		But most of them were taken in by their spiritual brothers elsewhere in Ukraine, and many others were accommodated by fellow in Russia.
But wetin Paul mean when e sey the holy things wey dem write go make Timothy get " sense wey go save " am?		But what did Paul mean by saying that the holy writings could make Timothy " wise for salvation "?
CRISTINA wey dey 18 years talk sey: " E dey hard before my papa and mama go talk wetin go make me happy, na so so complain dem dey complain.		MY PARENTS hardly ever encourage me, but they criticize me a lot. And their words can be so hurtful, " says Cristina, who is 18 years old.
Christoph talk sey: " send people to give me better advice.		sent me good advisers, and I listened to Him, even if it took some time.
David come talk sey: " Who I be? Who my family be, and who my papa family be for Israel, wey I go come marry king pikin? " ( 1 Sam.		After he killed Goliath and was offered the daughter of King Saul to be his wife, David said: " Who am I and who are my relatives, my father 's family in Israel, for me to become son - in - law to the king? "
Dem dey do this one so that people go dey buy am, even if dem no need am.		How easy it is to fall prey to these ploys and to misuse our freedom!
Dey practice our song dem when una dey do family worship ( Check paragraph 18 )		Practice the songs during family worship ( See paragraph 18 )
E dey sweet person to preach for morning near Danube River!		What a pleasure it is to give a witness in the morning hours along the Danube River!
E fit be say, na e mama make Rehoboam do this kind thing. E mama come from Ammon. ( 1 Ki.		Was he acting under the influence of his mother, who was an Ammonitess?
E fit be sey King Nebuchadnezzar want make Daniel believe sey dey under Babylon god. - Dan.		King Nebuchadnezzar likely wanted to impress Daniel with the idea that his God, had been subjected by Babylon 's god. - Dan.
E go don sweet dem well well as dem dey hear or read Bible for their own language!		Just think how thrilling it must have been for them to hear or read God 's Word in what had become their mother tongue!
E no want make anybody die.		He does not desire any to die.
E touch me well well, sotey I come dey cry.		I was reminded that the meetings are where I need to be. "
Even though sey to baptize na serious matter, why e no good make we dey fear to baptize?		Although baptism is a serious step, why should it not be feared or avoided?
For the first ten years wey Asa take rule, no let their enemy come fight dem.		blessed Judah with peace for the first ten years of Asa 's reign.
Gavin story na example of wetin we dey talk.		Take Gavin for example.
How take show sey e dey control imself?		What example does provide regarding self - control?
How Jesus prayer take make us know wetin get for mind for people wey obey am?		How is 's purpose for obedient mankind reflected in the model prayer?
How e dey do for body, if we dey go meeting, as e tell us?		How does feel when we obey his command to attend meetings?
I come comot from the place wey I know well well again. This time, na to go work for Bethel.		Again I left familiar surroundings behind, this time to help with Bethel work.
I dey listen to everybody wey want talk to me, and sometimes I dey tell dem sey: " ' God love person wey dey happy to give with all im mind. '		I listen to all who speak to me, and when appropriate, I often tell them: " ' God loves a cheerful giver. '
I just hate you! "		I hate you! "
If na so people dey for your area, we de praise you as you no de tire to preach the good news.		If that challenge describes your situation, we warmly commend you for your endurance.
If no be wetin e mean be that, I fit do wetin e talk? '		If not, can I yield to the request? '
If we dey think about problem before dem happen, e show sey we get ' sense. '		We are " cautious " when we think of difficulties ahead of time.
If you help am, e fit come dey teach Bible well for congregation. - Neh.		With your help, he may be able to improve his skill as a teacher of God 's Word. - Neh.
If you never start to enjoy your new congregation, wetin dey this Bible verse fit help you:		If you moved some time ago but you are still struggling to adjust, applying these Bible principles can help:
bless their work when dem meet one man wey im name na Charles Bernhardt. E get hotel for William Creek, near where train dey stop.		The pioneers ' efforts bore fruit when they met a hotelkeeper at William Creek, a remote railway stop.
don talk sey e go happen like that. E sey: ' The one wey no reach anything go turn to one thousand and the one wey small go turn to big country.		actually pointed forward to this outstanding growth, saying: " The little one will become a thousand and the small one a mighty nation.
give us person wey sin no dey im body, wey im life match the one wey Adam trowey.		provided a perfect man who could become the ransomer.
go make sure sey Babylon no go take im people do slave again.		would make sure that Babylon would not enslave his people again.
Jesus let Bible direct am for wetin e do and wetin e teach.		Jesus allowed God 's Word to guide not only his actions but also his teaching.
John 19: 38 talk sey Joseph na Jesus disciple. But e no want make the Jews know because e dey fear.		John 19: 38 says that Joseph " was a disciple of Jesus but a secret one because of his fear of the Jews. "
Lucas no only tell dem wetin e believe, but e still show our website to everybody for the class.		Not only did Luca explain his beliefs but he also showed our website to the whole class.
Many of dem no come from my place.		But inside, at heart, they were spiritual people.
My mama no gree, but e tell the man say maybe I go like - am.		Mother declined but said that I might be interested.
My papa stand for corner of road, dey give people wey dey pass magazine		My father standing on a street corner, offering magazines to passersby
NA PREACHING be the main work wey Jesus do.		DECLARING the good news of the Kingdom was Jesus ' primary assignment.
Na Adam be the man wey make sin dey this world and wey make people dey die.		Adam was the " one man " through whom sin and death " entered into the world. "
Na wetin you want do be that?		Is that your desire?
Now, I dey give am to.		I, in turn, now lend him to.
One of dem show sey e get sense.		One of the men is described as being " discreet. "
Or you no just like to dey study?		Perhaps you do not consider yourself to be studious.
Other Jew people want make Jesus vex, na e make they call Jesus Samaritan man.		Other Jews sought to insult Jesus by calling him a Samaritan.
Our 2013 Bible use " then, " and na so e still be for other translation.		Then " is the rendering used in the 2013 revision and in other Bible translations.
Our Father go come be ' everything to everybody. ' - 1 Cor.		our Father, will then become " all things to everyone. " - 1 Cor.
PLENTY people dey baptize every year.		EACH year thousands of Bible students get baptized.
People wey don marry fit still copy to show sey dem like how e dey rule. How?		Consider an area wherein Christian married couples can support 's ways and thereby uphold his sovereignty.
Person fit even think sey Israel people no go fit do Jabin army anything.		Villagers were afraid even to be seen in public.
Satan do Job many bad things. Job come even dey think sey na God dey cause im problem.		Satan launched a series of vicious attacks against Job, leading Job to assume that God was to blame.
So, we need to trust am. You think sey go happy, if we dey put mind sey, we fit help ourself or other people fit help us?		Will he be pleased if we try to save ourselves with " the power of the horse, " that is, where humans turn for help?
Stars no get life, but put dem for mind. But you get life, and you dey serve because you love am, no be because dem force you. So you no think sey go still get you for mind? ( Ps.		If takes a personal interest in his inanimate creation, imagine how he feels about you who serve him, not because you have been programmed to do so, but because you love him!
TODAY, plenty people wey don promise to use their life serve dey baptize.		THOUSANDS of Bible students make their dedication to and get baptized.
That one no go work!		Absolutely not!
The person wey write Psalm 147 talk sey, dey ' heal people wey something dey worry for mind. E dey bandage their wound. ' ( Ps.		The psalmist wrote of God: " He heals the brokenhearted; he binds up their wounds. "
The pikin go fit fear and know sey e good to do wetin e talk?		Will he fear and recognize the wisdom of accepting God 's standards?
The things wey we learn reach five:		There are at least five:
The truth be sey, no be only to just read Bible go help us. But we must think about wetin we read.		In addition to reading the Bible, it is important for us to meditate on what we read.
This problem dey worse everyday.		And the problem of lacking self - control is worsening.
This thing wey e think, help am check imself and come make am fit go Ghana go preach.		That honest self - evaluation motivated her to move to Ghana to expand her ministry.
Tony and Wendy give Jos and Rose free house to stay because na wetin dem get for mind to do for people wey dey pioneer full - time.		Tony and Wendy wanted to offer it rent - free to full - time pioneers.
We go fit copy example if we no dey worry ourself too much when things no happen the way we want am.		We can imitate by not becoming overly concerned when things do not work out as we had expected.
We no dey sell this magazine.		This publication is not for sale.
Wetin come bad for wetin dem dey do?		So, what was the problem?
Wetin make am fit do this big work wey God give am?		What equipped him to care for that weighty assignment?
Wetin make our organization different from other people own?		What makes our brotherhood unique?
When I dey prison, the person wey dey ask me question come shout for me. E talk sey: " We go soon kill all of una like rat! "		While in prison, during an interrogation the investigator yelled, " Soon we will stamp you people out like mice against the floor! "
When I reach secondary school, I get one friend and na boxer e be. E tell me make l join boxing.		While I was in high school, I had a friend who was a prizefighter, and he convinced me to try boxing.
When give Cornelius and people for im house holy spirit, Peter come ask sey: ' Who fit talk sey make this people no baptize for water when God don already give dem im holy spirit as e take give us? ' - Acts 10: 47.		When Cornelius and his household received holy spirit, Peter acknowledged: " Can anyone deny water to prevent these from being baptized who have received the holy spirit just as we have? " - Acts 10: 47.
When King Cyrus free Israel people, how you think sey e do dem for body? And why body do dem like that?		When King Cyrus liberated the exiled Israelites, how must they have felt, and why?
When Paul use that example, e fit be say e de think about the way Roman soldier de dress.		When developing his illustration, Paul perhaps had in mind the armor worn by Roman legionnaires.
When dem suffer us, we dey sofri bear am.		If they hurt us by their speech or actions, we can imitate the example of the apostles.
When our work for congregation or some things for our life change, this one fit make am hard for us to know where we suppose do reach.		Changes in personal circumstances or of assignments can test our modesty.
When things like heavy breeze destroy our brothers house, dem go need place to stay before dem go help dem repair their house.		Natural disasters may leave some families homeless and in need of lodging until relief efforts can restore their dwellings.
Why e be like that? Na because all of us must talk about wetin we know for Bible, we must control ourself, and we must make friend with better people.		All of us need to defend our faith, control our emotions, reject harmful peer pressure, and avoid unwholesome associations and entertainment.
Why e good make papa and mama dey tell their children about?		Why must parents speak with their children about?
Why e no good to let other people choose for us?		Why can it be dangerous to let others decide for us?
You no go like am if dem welcome you well for Kingdom Hall, no matter where you come from?		Would you not appreciate a warm welcome at the Kingdom Hall, regardless of your nationality or skin color?
when you dey teach for Kingdom Hall?		when teaching from the platform?
Put everything wey you dey do for hand, and your plan go get head. " - PROV.		Commit to whatever you do, and your plans will succeed. " - PROV.
Cristina wey we talk about for paragraph one talk sey: " Wetin I like pass for our meeting na the love and the better word wey people dey talk for there to make me strong.		Cristina, who was mentioned at the beginning of this article, says: " What I like most about the meetings is the love and encouragement I receive there.
Wetin we fit learn from the people wey God correct?		What can we learn from those whom God disciplined in the past?
[CONTENT_REMOVED]		See paragraph 10 )
So na the love wey your pikin get for go help am dey do wetin good for eye. - Isa.		Such appreciation is the best protection, for your child will be motivated to hold to 's righteous way. - Isa.
So, wetin you go do be sey, make you talk with your brother.		First make your peace with your brother, and then come back and offer your gift. "
Or what if person no happy, e go fit choose well? ( Num.		Or is it likely that we will make sound decisions when we are discouraged?
Soldier no de remove the strong iron for e chest, and wear another iron wey no strong. So we no go leave wetin Bible talk and de do things our way.		Just as a soldier would not swap a breastplate of iron for one made of an inferior metal, we would never want to exchange 's standards of what is right for our own.
Which example we go talk about, and why?		What illustration will we consider, and why?
John 17: 20, 21 ) Jesus still talk sey people wey go rule with am for heaven ( the small group of sheep ) and the ' other sheep. '		Jesus also foretold that his little flock of anointed followers would " become one flock " with his " other sheep. "
You no think sey this word go don give Joshua mind?		What reassuring encouragement!
How Jesus take show sey e ready to help people wey want learn Bible?		How did Jesus cultivate the interest others showed in the good news?
Sickness: go comot sickness, and people no go get comma for body again.		Disease: will bless his people with perfect health.
E get age wey person suppose reach before e baptize?		Is there a certain age at which one should get baptized?
How we go take copy Job example?		How can we imitate Job 's faith and obedience?
But as time dey go, dem no come use their freedom well; dem no do wetin dem promise.		Sadly, in time the nation misused its freedom of choice and broke that promise.
So why e come baptize? E baptize to show sey e want use im life do wetin God want. - Heb.		His baptism symbolized the presenting of himself to do God 's will. - Heb.
But before that time, we go need to ' use our sense ' work so that we go survive. Even if we dey use ' this world property, ' make we still dey do wetin go make God happy.		But in the meantime, Jesus ' followers would need " practical wisdom " to make a living, using the " unrighteous riches " of today 's world while seeking to please God.
Lamech kill one young man wey hit am ( Gen. 4: 23 ); the people wey dey work for Abraham ( Abram ) quarrel with people wey dey work for Lot ( Gen. 13: 5 - 7 ); because Hagar no respect Sarah ( Sarai ) again, Sarah vex for Abraham ( Gen. 16: 3 - 6 ); Ishmael hate everybody and everybody hate Ishmael. - Gen.		Cain kills Abel; Lamech kills a young man for striking him; the shepherds of Abraham ( Abram ) and Lot quarrel; Hagar despises Sarah ( Sarai ), who becomes upset with Abraham; Ishmael is against everyone and everyone 's hand is against him. - Gen.
Which kind things refugee people dey face for their new place?		What challenges may refugees face in a new land?
Aaron and Hur hold Moses hand when Israel people dey fight.		Aaron and Hur literally supported Moses ' hands during a battle.
After, e come start to study Bible with Witness.		Then she began to study the Bible with the.
And Christoph fit come dey do like dem.		Christoph joined the club anyway.
And e still dey allow us choose wetin we want do, e no dey force us. E dey use Bible, our book dem, our papa and mama, and elders take correct us.		Rather, dignifies us, appealing to the goodness in our heart and respecting our free will.
And na im still make lawyer and judge plenty, because na dem go explain the law and use am judge matter.		Just think of the volumes and volumes of laws written by man, let alone the armies of lawyers and judges needed to interpret and administer them.
And when we dey do this one, e go help us get strong faith and we go put mind for wetin God don promise us.		Moreover, doing that for others helps us to keep our spiritual focus and to feel the reality of what God has in store for us.
Apart from that one, e still get other things wey we dey do to make God happy.		Yet, there are other sacrifices with which God is well - pleased.
As take help this brother, e go help you when you fall.		Just as in the case of this brother, God will pick you up from a fallen state.
As dem dey see the way God take dey answer their prayer, their faith dey strong more. ( Neh. 1: 4, 11; Ps.		Their faith was strengthened as they experienced God 's answers to their prayers.
Because dem like to dey do wetin dem want, and dem no want make God tell dem wetin dem go do.		If it were true, it would mean that man does not need God 's guidance and that man can do as he pleases.
Because e fit no bad reach as you think.		Because things often do not turn out to be as bad as we feared they might be.
Because money dey the place, wetin dey people mind pass na how to get big big things and live big man life.		It was a fabulously wealthy city in which people placed much emphasis on luxuries, leisure, and comfortable living.
Because of how the sister take treat am, the bad mind wey e get for Witness people come dey change small small. So, John come ask the sister two question. E ask am whether Jesus na God, and whether Christian suppose pray to Mary.		By this time, John 's prejudice toward the was beginning to melt, so he asked her about two topics on which his father 's beliefs differed from his - whether Jesus is God and whether Christians should pray to Mary.
Before, e get many things wey I think sey I no go fit do, but help me make I do dem well. ' - Karen		There were many things I thought I could never do, but with 's help I did them successfully. " - Karen
Boaz tell am sey: ' Listen, my pikin. '		Listen, my daughter, " said Boaz.
But, we dey do like that sometimes because of sin wey dey our body.		Because of inherited sin, we all act presumptuously at times.
But God use im holy spirit send Paul to go preach to Greek people, Rome people and many other people wey dey serve different different god. - Gal.		On the other hand, the apostle Paul was sent by the holy spirit to preach to the people of the nations of the Greco - Roman world, who worshipped many gods. - Gal.
But no be just to know wetin dem mean.		But we need more than just an intellectual understanding of what those emblems mean.
Daniel go come life again?		Would Daniel get to live again?
Dem come use Bible answer all my question. "		They answered all my questions, using the Bible. "
Dem dey sleep with their own family person, dey sleep with animal, man dey sleep with man, dem dey sacrifice their children and dem dey serve juju. ( Lev.		Under Canaanite leadership, people did detestable things, which included incest, homosexuality, bestiality, child sacrifice, and gross idolatry.
Dem fit dey think about wetin apostle Paul talk when e sey: " Why another person conscience go judge the freedom wey I get? " ( 1 Cor.		Perhaps they have in mind Paul 's words to the Corinthian Christians about food: " Why should my freedom be judged by another person 's conscience? "
Dem fit get the kind mind wey Martha get, when e talk sey: " I know sey when the last day reach, [ my brother ] go come back to life "?		Could they feel as did Martha, who said: " I know [ my brother ] will rise in the resurrection on the last day "?
Dem ready to do everything wey dem fit do because dem know sey go help dem and bless their work.		With full faith that would bless their efforts, they were determined to do their best.
Dem train us well well for Gilead School so that we go know how we fit ' be everything to everybody ' for our missionary work.		Gilead School provided wonderful training to help us to " become all things to people of all sorts " in the missionary work.
Dem want make people dey praise and respect dem like sey dem be God.		People with such traits crave to be admired and adored.
E GET one story about one small boy wey dey stay one village. E no get money.		AS THE story goes, a boy who lived in a remote village was poor.
E first tell the bishop, before e carry me go back to the convent wey dey Zaragoza.		He got permission from the bishop to send me back to the convent in Zaragoza.
E get one sister wey im pikin comot for house after dem disfellowship am.		Consider the example of a mother whose disfellowshipped daughter left home.
E give us this law because e love us, and we go gain am if we follow am.		God gives us laws because he loves us.
E make some of the city wey e de rule strong pass before. ( 2 Chron.		He reinforced a number of cities " to a very great degree. "
E no get place wey dark or secret place wey bad people fit hide. '		There is no darkness or deep shadow where wrongdoers can conceal themselves. "
E no tey before Jesus die, wey e warn im disciple dem three times about ' the person wey dey rule this world. '		Shortly before his death, Jesus three times warned his disciples about " the ruler of this world. "
E still talk sey: " Na this one dey help me put mind for wetin I dey read. "		He adds: " Remembering this motivates me to look beyond the obvious. "
E talk say, " I de pray make help me everytime. "		She answers, " Prayerful reliance on. "
E tell am sey: ' Everything wey e get dey your hand. '		did not do that, but he allowed Satan to test Job, stating: " Everything that he has is in your hand. "
E use the Greek word wey dem dey translate sometimes as " show sey you get faith " pass other people wey join write Bible.		More than any other Bible writer, John used the Greek verb that is sometimes translated " exercise faith. "
Even though sey e still young and e never do that kind work before, help am. Solomon really show sey e get strong mind, e finish the work.		With his father 's words impressed on his mind and heart, Solomon did not allow his youth and inexperience to become an obstacle.
For 1937, my mama junior sister and im husband come visit us. Dem be Witness, and na France dem from come. As dem want comot, dem come give us two book wey be Government and Deliverance. Na Witness people print am.		In 1937 my aunt and her husband, who were, visited us from France and left us the books Government and Deliverance, published by the Watch Tower Society.
For example, around 600 years ago, e get one man wey dey stay for England, e believe sey everybody suppose get Bible.		For example, consider a 14th - century theologian named John Wycliffe.
For our meeting, we dey learn why e good to love God and other people.		The Christian congregation emphasizes the importance of having love for God and for fellow humans.
For some years, we preach for area wey Witness no too dey preach. We happy to dey with many brothers and sisters.		We had been in unassigned territory for some years, and now it was a wonderful blessing to be among so many brothers and sisters.
God use Jesus death take forgive Paul and other Christian for im time.		God applied the ransom to Paul and others of his day.
How apostle Paul take encourage the brothers?		What encouragement did the apostle Paul give the early Christians?
How children fit help their family?		How can children become a source of comfort?
How condition be today because of wetin Satan, Adam and Eve do?		The rebellion of Satan, Adam, and Eve has resulted in what distressful world conditions today?
How we fit do like am?		How can we imitate her self - sacrificing attitude?
How you fit prepare yourself?		What can you do to be ready?
I thank sey I follow all this kind people work for Bethel.		But I am grateful to have been a companion of such faithful spiritual ones in 's service.
If the Son make una free, una go really dey free. " - John 8: 34, 36.		If the Son sets you free, you will be truly free. " - John 8: 34, 36.
If we sabi wetin think and we use am choose wetin we go do, e go make us near am.		When we base our decisions on 's thinking, we draw closer to him.
If you get this one for mind, you go fit do wetin like even when e hard. Know things wey fit make am hard for you to do good thing.		Still, if you are ever tempted to break one of 's laws, strengthen yourself by taking time to ponder the disastrous spiritual consequences that you could face for failing to restrain sinful impulses.
de see as people for the world no dey as one. But e de really happy as e people dey as one. - Read Zephaniah 3: 17.		And as observes our divided world, it must warm his heart to see the unity that exists among his people. - Read Zephaniah 3: 17.
na that kind friend. Isaiah 41: 8 - 13 talk sey na that kind friend be to Abraham.		is such a friend to you, just as he was to the patriarch Abraham, as noted at Isaiah 41: 8 - 13.
no save Israel people when their enemy come fight dem, because dem no do wetin tell dem.		Because of the Israelites ' disobedience, did not protect them from their enemies.
Jesus talk sey ' nobody fit serve two oga. '		Jesus stated that " no one can slave for two masters. "
Job na one person wey im life turn upside down.		The life of Job is a study in contrasts.
Like Noah, people wey give their life to dey do everything wey sey make dem do.		Like Noah, dedicated disciples obediently carry on in the work that God has assigned them to do.
Lucia Moussanett story dey for June 22, 2003, Awake!, pp.		The life story of Lucia Moussanett appears in the June 22, 2003, issue of Awake!, pp.
Luigi pray make help am control imself. E try to cool the man down, for where! The man no gree. E dey vibrate.		Luigi prayed, asked to help him keep his composure, and tried to calm the other driver - but to no avail.
Many of dem marry, dem get family and dem get work. - Mark 6: 3; 1 Thess.		Many married and enjoyed family life, working to support themselves. - Mark 6: 3; 1 Thess.
Many of the brothers no get money, but we still like to visit dem.		Many of the brothers were poor, but we loved visiting them.
Many times, John write wetin Jesus talk about wetin we go dey do to show sey we get faith. - John 3: 16; 6: 29, 40; 11: 25, 26; 14: 1, 12.		John often quoted Jesus ' words that show that exercising faith is an ongoing process. - John 3: 16; 6: 29, 40; 11: 25, 26; 14: 1, 12.
Na im arrange how everything go dey work together.		sets the standard for how his creation should work together.
Na im make e dey important make we continue to dey watch till the time wey great tribulation go start.		It is imperative that we stay watchful until the tribulation occurs.
Na so because different different kind of food dey the garden wey dem fit chop.		After all, they had more food available than they could eat.
Na the money wey people take their mind give, dem dey use support their work. ( 2 Cor.		Their work is supported by voluntary donations.
Na this one dey make us enjoy ' peace wey dey keep ' us together. ( Eph.		PEACE: " Putting up with one another in love " allows us to enjoy " the uniting bond of peace. "
Na true sey no be every time wey Bible talk about the ten - tribe kingdom, e dey talk about people wey get hope to stay for paradise earth. But as dem come be one with the two - tribe kingdom, e dey make us remember the one mind wey people get - the people wey dey go heaven and the people wey go dey this earth.		Although the ten - tribe kingdom does not usually picture those with the earthly hope, the unification described in this prophecy does remind us of the unity that exists between those with an earthly hope and those with a heavenly hope.
No be bad thing to happy if person wey dem first disfellowship come be Witness again.		When someone is reinstated in the congregation, we have good reason to rejoice.
No be so? But before that one, we go first talk about this question dem: ( 1 ) Before 1914, wetin the Bible Students do wey show sey dem don dey comot hand from fake religion?		But first, we must answer the following questions: What stand regarding Babylon the Great did the Bible Students take prior to 1914?
No dey keep wetin you no dey use again, and pay any money wey you owe.		Dispose of things you do not use, and pay off debts.
One man wey study wetin happen for Bible time talk sey, if the person no go meet the elders, " e go use im head carry wetin e see. "		One Bible scholar wrote that if the fugitive neglected to approach the elders, " it was at his peril. "
Other example still dey. If we do like dem, e go show sey we ready to put God Kingdom first. E go still show sey we like to be friend, and we value im blessing pass money or property.		Such determination to put Kingdom interests first shows that we value God 's friendship and spiritual riches far more than what today 's commercial world can offer.
Peter use sword attack one of the people wey they come arrest Jesus.		Later that night, Peter used a sword to attack a member of the mob.
So, if na true sey life start from something wey get only one part wey come dey form different different part, why e be sey this olden days animal don already get different part wey complete?		So if life evolved from simple to more complex forms, why were these ancient creatures already so complex?
Some of the talk de vex people because they no like wetin them de hear.		A few of the talks were quite direct, and some householders did not appreciate the message.
Sometimes, government people dey make am hard for our brothers wey be refugee to fit find other brothers for the area.		Further, authorities have at times made it difficult for our brothers who are refugees to contact the congregation.
Sometimes when Bible talk about mountain, e dey talk about kingdom or government.		In the Bible, mountains can represent kingdoms, or governments.
The elders go tell you to give dem any number wey dem go take call you quick quick if anything happen.		The elders should request your emergency contact information so that they can reach you if a disaster strikes.
The new area where we dey go preach far reach 10 to 15 miles ( 16 to 24 km ) from where we park am.		We covered territory that was 10 to 15 miles ( 16 to 24 km ) away.
The other thing wey you go do na to think about the person.		Finally, endeavor to see the whole person.
The second topic talk about how people wey dey another language congregation, go continue to serve well.		The second article discusses how those serving in a foreign field can maintain their spiritual health.
The truth be sey, Bible still dey change our life.		Yes, the Bible can continue to change our life.
The way the brother show respect as e de explain things, make the Ambassador understand who Witness people really be. E no hate our preaching work again.		The brother 's respectful explanation removed much of the commissioner 's misunderstanding and prejudice toward our work.
This area dey for eastern Madagascar, and their land dey produce well.		He did well in school and wanted to pursue higher education.
This one make Paul give one sweet talk.		Paul responded by giving a fine talk.
This one really touch me! I no go ever forget sey e no put mind for wetin I tell am but for the bad thing wey I dey do myself.		I will always appreciate that she didn 't focus on the wrong that I had done to her but, rather, on the damage I was doing to myself.
True true, we fit still serve God if we let wetin we dey learn for Bible dey change our life.		We can do so even in our present imperfect state if we continue striving to submit to the transforming power of his Word.
We and our grand pikin dem dey preach		Sharing in the ministry with our granddaughters
Wetin I read from that topic show sey ' e no easy for many people to comot bad thing for mind, ' e make me know sey I still be part of people.		When I read in the article that ' for many, the battle to overcome wrong desires is especially intense, ' it made me feel part of the brotherhood.
Wetin promise Abraham start to happen for Nisan 14, 1943 B.C.E.		The covenant made with Abraham started to take effect on Nisan 14, 1943 B.C.E.
Wetin Jesus do about - am?		How did Jesus deal with them?
Wetin Noah no fit do: Even as Noah dey warn the people about wetin want do, e no fit force dem listen to wetin e dey preach or make dem stop to do bad things; and e no fit control the time wey the rain go start.		What Noah could not do: Although Noah faithfully preached 's warning message, he could not force wicked people around him to accept that message, nor could he make the Flood come any sooner.
When my husband release My Book of Bible Stories for Gaelic language for 1983		Arthur releases My Book of Bible Stories in Gaelic in 1983
When una dey do family worship, or when only you dey, try do this things: ( 1 ) Choose one of the song wey you like pass for our songbook.		During family worship or even on your own, try the following: Choose one of your favorite songs from our songbook.
Whether the person wey no be servant know or e no know, im wife or husband wey dey serve make am ' holy. '		Whether the unbelieving mate realizes it or not, he or she is " sanctified " because of being married to a believer.
Why organization change how dem take dey spend money?		How should we view recent simplifications in the organization?
Why Paul warn Christians wey dey go heaven sey make dem no dey ' do the things wey the flesh want '?		But you may wonder why Paul would stress to anointed Christians the danger of living " according to the flesh. "
You fit call dem to come chop small thing for your house. Dem no go quick forget the better things wey you do for dem.		If you share a simple meal together, they will long remember your hospitality.
You fit learn some things for the language wey you go talk so that they fit stop and listen to you.		Additionally, why not learn a few phrases that may capture their interest?
You know wetin go help you?		What can help you?
We dey show sey we want be children of our Papa for heaven when we dey show our neighbor love. ( Matt.		We prove that we desire to be " sons of [ our ] Father who is in the heavens " by loving our neighbor.
The problem fit be old age, sickness, or when things hard.		Perhaps we are presently confronted with problems caused by old age, poor health, or economic pressures.
True true, which king be like Jesus wey die for us?		Indeed, what other king has ever voluntarily died as a ransom for our sins?
After, Peter write say God " want make everybody repent. "		Later, Peter wrote that God " desires all to attain to repentance. "
Make we see why that example really correct.		Let us examine why that illustration is appropriate.
The thing wey Jephthah and im pikin do when things hard dem, go fit help us learn how we go take get strong faith.		To help us do so, let us learn how Jephthah and his daughter endured challenges in their lives.
Wetin Jesus mean? E mean sey dem suppose to dey help people understand God Word and get life wey no go end.		They were supposed to unlock the meaning of God 's Word and help others to walk on the road to eternal life.
This advice ' no let bad thing win you ' show sey we go fit win bad thing.		The encouragement not to let ourselves " be conquered by the evil " shows that we can defeat evil.
E no take am as wetin dem must do for am.		She did not take this right for granted as if others owed her something.
How John 3: 16 take show the kind thing wey God do for human being?		According to John 3: 16, what provision did God make to restore mankind?
How the example about the farmer concern our preaching work?		How does the illustration of the sower apply to our ministry?
Which things we first learn wey help us understand wetin dey Bible?		What truths are fundamental to our understanding of the Bible 's message?
Wetin the book of Psalm and Isaiah talk about, wey God Kingdom go do?		What Kingdom blessings are foretold by Isaiah and a psalmist?
Wetin we fit learn from wetin Abraham do when im and Lot get problem?		What can we learn from the way Abraham handled a problem?
wey ' dey see wetin dey mind, ' no see Saul as clay wey don useless.		The examiner of hearts, " however, did not see Saul as useless clay.
So make we " listen to correction " so that we go " get sense. "		So let us " listen to discipline and become wise. "
The kings wey rule for Israel after Joshua die, still do the same thing.		Later, the kings who ruled God 's people followed a similar routine.
Isa. 54: 13 ) When we do everything to make peace with people, e dey show sey we really love dem.		Would you not agree that such a peaceful spirit is truly unique in today 's divided world?
E still pray to and confess wetin e do to show sey e want be friend again. ( Ps.		David also prayed to, confessing his sins and expressing a sincere desire to be restored to 's favor.
Better husband no dey force im wife to respect am, but e dey do wetin go make im wife respect am.		A loving husband tries to gain his wife 's respect by earning it rather than demanding it.
You No Think Sey You Need to Train People?		Do You See the Need to Train Others?
So if you invite any brother or sister come your house and e no want drink alcohol, abeg, make you no force the person.		Therefore, it would be unloving for a host to pressure a brother to drink alcohol if he has declined to do so.
After we don get ' permit, ' we rent one house.		After we obtained our visas, we rented an apartment.
Among them na brothers wey they be Jew, and brothers wey they no be Jew. For the letter, e talk better thing about brothers for the whole world. - 1 Pet.		When Peter wrote his first letter to Jewish and Gentile Christians in Asia Minor, he spoke warmly about the whole association of brothers. - 1 Pet.
Amy talk sey the sister wey e make friend with, help am know how people for the area dey do things.		Amy relates that befriending an experienced local sister helped her to gain insight into different customs.
And as we dey preach to this kind people, wetin we go do to make sure sey dem no spoil our better character? We go answer this question for this topic.		We will also see how we can protect ourselves from being infected with negative traits while at the same time helping others spiritually.
Another thing be sey, dem go dey talk bad about people and even about God, and trust no go dey.		They would be blasphemers and betrayers, directing abusive, injurious speech against humans and even against God.
As one soldier dey pass, the doctor come shout tell am sey, " Do something to this fear fear man! "		Then a soldier walked by, and the doctor yelled, " Do something about this yellow coward! "
Because if we do like that, no go happy with us at all. - Col.		To do otherwise - to wait while complaining and grumbling that is not acting fast enough - would be displeasing to our God. - Col.
Bible tell us sey make we no follow this kind people wey 2 Timothy 3: 2 - 5 talk about.		Wisely, we heed the inspired counsel to turn away from those described at 2 Timothy 3: 2 - 5.
Bible tell us sey make we ready to use our mind wait for.		Additionally, the Bible urges us to accept willingly the need to wait.
But Jesus go wait until the time wey want.		But Jesus would have to wait until 's appointed time.
But as Ecclesiastes 7: 8 talk, ' the way matter take end better pass as e take start. ' - Felisa.		But just as Ecclesiastes 7: 8 says, " better is the end of a matter than its beginning. " - Felisa.
But as time dey go, e go easy for us to dey do and dey think the kind thing wey like. - Ps.		In time, though, thinking and acting in a godly way will likely become easier and more natural for us as our thoughts and actions progressively line up with those of God. - Ps.
But e no easy for Witness to teach people the truth wey dey Bible.		To do so, the truth had to overcome a powerful ideology. Why?
But no be just by age dem take dey know person wey don mature.		Logically, then, wisdom - the opposite of foolishness - would be one evidence of maturity.
But today, congregation dey there, and their publisher plenty pass 100.		Today, there is a congregation with over 100 publishers in Tulun.
But wetin Paul talk about for chapter 7 help us understand wetin the ' flesh ' for Romans 8: 4 - 13 mean.		However, what Paul wrote in chapter 7 gives us a clue as to the " flesh " spoken of at Romans 8: 4 - 13.
But whether dem use people or dem no use, the point be sey no be small work dem do.		Be that as it may, the task that the two men undertook was not trivial.
DANIEL AND MIRIAM marry for September 2000, and dem come dey stay for one city wey be Barcelona for Spain.		DANIEL AND MIRIAM married in September 2000 and settled down in the city of Barcelona, Spain.
Dem dey see am like load. So dem stop to read Bible, to go meeting, and preaching. And na wetin Satan want be that.		So they stop reading God 's Word, attending congregation meetings, and engaging in the field ministry - just as Satan hopes they will do.
Dem no go begin carry shoulder up, dey feel sey dem be oga or sey na dem good pass.		We make it easier for them to avoid falling victim to pride, to having any feelings of superiority or self - righteousness.
Dem remember when Pioneer School start for 1977. That time, dem dey tell pioneer for the school sey make dem try go area wey dem need more people to preach.		They recall that when the Pioneer Service School began in 1977, the emphasis was placed on being willing to move and serve where the need was greater.
E de help us serve as one people. One time as Paul de travel, e reach the seaport for Puteoli and e continue, de go Rome.		When Paul landed at the port of Puteoli and headed up toward Rome, local Christians came south to meet him.
E dey help us to really get strong mind sey God dey. E still dey help us fit tell other people about wetin we don learn from Bible. - Read 1 Peter 3: 15.		regularly strengthens our conviction that the true God exists, and it helps us learn how to defend our beliefs. - Read 1 Peter 3: 15.
E fit be im mate dem, or e no get person to talk to.		It could be peer pressure.
E fit be sey you dey listen to people wey sabi sing for radio, or dey watch dem for television.		With the availability of modern technology, you may enjoy listening to professional singers.
E get anything wey you value pass to serve?		Is there anything to which you give more importance than your relationship with?
E get some fine things wey papa and mama fit talk with their pikin. E dey Questions Young People Ask - Answers That Work, Volume 2, pp.		Parents can review with their child the helpful information in Questions Young People Ask - Answers That Work, Volume 2, pp.
E go form pikin, and the pikin wey don form fit reach were e suppose stay for the woman belle.		It might enter the uterus but fail to implant in the less receptive lining.
E go produce other wheat seed wey they fit plant make e grow too.		No, it produces new seed, which may eventually grow into stalks.
E make earth for human being to stay and enjoy am. And e make dem to fit copy im character.		The earth was to be an ideal home for men and women created in God 's image.
E pass 30 years wey Brother Brickell take travel round Australia dey preach. E use bicycle, machine and motor.		Over the next 30 years, Brother Brickell traveled hundreds of thousands of miles throughout Australia by bicycle, motorcycle, and car.
E still good make we dey help people learn about.		We should also strive to help others spiritually.
E still show sey the way dey rule na im better pass.		It shows why his sovereignty is superior to that of others.
E talk sey: " E no get anytime wey never help me. "		She says, " I have never been in a situation where I have not felt 's strength and his guidance. "
Even if e later know why e suffer, e fit still dey think wetin go make am suffer reach like that.		Even if he eventually better understood the reason for his trials, he may on occasion have thought about why it was necessary for him to suffer to such an extent.
Fake religion dey join different different side for politics, and this kind thing dey mek people dey hate theirself.		False religions take sides in politics, and this divides people.
For example, the Christian dem for the apostle time dey always want gather together to worship and learn about am.		For example, the first Christians were eager to meet together to worship and learn about him.
For example, we fit learn from people mistake wey Bible talk about.		We can learn valuable lessons from the mistakes of others, including those recorded in the Bible.
How our meeting take dey help us and dey make us dey strong?		How do our meetings encourage us and help us to keep strong?
I come tell my mama sey we go stay make we fit join my sister Linda take care of am.		I told her that we would stay and help my sister Linda with her care.
I don pass 90 years now but I still dey do my work well as elder for congregation.		Today, past the age of 90, I am still active as a Christian elder.
I no get right to pay all the people wey work for me anything wey I want?		Do I not have the right to give all my workers whatever I want?
If you be young person, e good make you ask yourself sey: ' I dey go meeting and preaching just because my papa and mama want make I go?		As a youth, ask yourself: ' Am I participating in spiritual activities just because my parents expect me to?
Isaiah 65: 14 talk about the better things wey God people dey enjoy: ' See!		Isaiah 65: 14 describes the spiritual condition prevailing among God 's people: " Look!
organization don tell us make we do am like that so that the person go know the truth well. ( Col.		The organization has given this direction so that new disciples will be " stabilized in the faith. "
Jesus do everything to help other people, sotey e die for dem. ( Matt.		The Son of God gave everything, including his life, in ministering to others.
Lie de cause problem for who talk the lie and who believe - am.		Lies damage both the one telling them and the one believing them.
Marriage fit help person comot hand for things wey no clean for God eye like to rub im private part ( masturbation ) or to dey play love with person wey no be im husband or wife.		Getting married can help a person to avoid letting passion lead him to such a practice as masturbation or to sexual immorality.
Me and my wife don see sey to follow that advice dey make us happy.		My wife and I have found real enjoyment doing just that.
My house and compound dey clean? The way I arrange my things de make the area fine?		Do I keep my home and property tidy, thus reflecting well on the neighborhood?
Na get all the better things wey dey this earth.		What will we consider in this article?
Na church leaders dey talk who dem go kill and government go come kill the person.		The church handed down the death sentence; the State carried it out.
Na im fit end our problem. When we remember this one, we go get mind to fit bear any problem - whether we dey face am now, or we go face am for front.		Knowing that is the Source of lasting comfort will surely help us to endure courageously whatever tribulations we face - now and in the future.
Na only after e do this one, e go chop.		Only then would he eat his meal.
Na true say Rehoboam do good thing sometimes. But e fail to get blessing from.		His merits notwithstanding, Rehoboam failed to gain God 's favor.
Na when I marry Angie I comot for Bethel. Me and my wife come use around three years pioneer for Staten Island.		Then Angie and I married, so I left Bethel, and for about three years, we pioneered on Staten Island.
On top all this one, you go happy sey you don find wetin better pass gold by far! - Prov.		Above all, you will rejoice because you have found something much better than gold. - Prov.
One thing wey go help us to dey carry body down, na to dey read Bible everyday, and dey think about wetin we read. ( Deut.		To remain humble, we need to set aside time to meditate daily on what we read in God 's Word.
Or what if you no get work again and e dey hard you to see another work?		Or what if you lose your job, and you are having difficulty finding another?
Or you dey ask other people?		Or do you ask others what they would do?
Other people sey if na we dey really choose wetin we go do, no law go dey tell us wetin to do and wetin we no go do.		Others argue that true free will is only possible if we have absolute freedom.
Paul talk sey: ' Una no dey God side and una be enemy because una mind dey for wicked things, e don use the body of that one take settle with una now, because e die. ' - Col.		Paul declared: " You who were once alienated and enemies because your minds were on the works that were wicked, he has now reconciled by means of that one 's fleshly body through his death. " - Col.
People like Baruch ( wey dey write for Jeremiah ), Ebed - melech wey be Ethiopia person and Rechab pikin dem no die even though sey the mark no show for front of their head. ( Jer.		Although not receiving a visible mark on their foreheads, people such as Baruch ( Jeremiah 's secretary ), Ebed - melech the Ethiopian, and the Rechabites were saved.
Simple Life Don Make Dem Happy, May		Is Celibacy a Requirement for Ministers? No.
So, all of us need to look for how we fit help other people. And as Paul talk, make we dey encourage each other, dey show love, dey do things together, and dey pity for each other. All this things go really help our brothers and sisters.		Yes, all of us should endeavor to look out for the interests of others, offering a " consolation of love, " " spiritual fellowship, " and " tender affection and compassion " to encourage our brothers and sisters.
So how person suppose know Bible reach before e baptize?		So how much knowledge is initially required?
So if we do wetin tell us, e go happy with us.		So when we obey that command, is pleased.
Some people dey run go stay another place for their country when wahala dey. But, other people dey run go another country go stay.		While some people are displaced within their own country, many others are thrust into a totally unfamiliar environment in a new land.
The Watchtower talk about some Bible verse and why dem suppose disfellowship person wey no gree stop this things. ( 1 Cor. 5: 7; 2 Cor.		After citing several relevant scriptures, The Watchtower explained why an unrepentant smoker should be disfellowshipped.
The brother talk sey the main thing wey help am be sey, e no stop to dey do things wey dey make happy.		Above all, " he explains, " I find that working hard to fortify my relationship with gives me the greatest strength to cope with emotional difficulties.
The only thing wey I know be sey I want be like Isaiah wey answer sey " I dey here!		The one thing I did know was that I wanted to be like Isaiah, who said: ' Here I am!
The thing wey help me pass be sey, I dey tell my plan for prayer. "		Above all, I often mentioned my goal in prayer to. "
The truth be sey that kind thing dey pain.		Few things could hurt more.
Think about all this things; soak yourself inside dem, so that as you dey do well everybody go dey see am. " - 1 Tim.		Ponder over these things; be absorbed in them, so that your advancement may be plainly seen by all people. " - 1 Tim.
This na because of wetin Paul write for chapter 4.		In chapter 4, he discussed Abraham.
This one come mean sey use angels help Israel people for the war? Or, e mean sey stone come dey fall from heaven like rain?		Is this a reference to angelic assistance, or was there some sort of meteorite shower?
This one make am no do anything wey no like. Bible tell us sey: " Noah follow the true God waka. "		For instance, because Noah " walked with the true God, " he did not walk, or associate, with the ungodly.
To make person hand strong, fit mean to make im mind come down, to support am, or to give am power to do something.		To strengthen one 's hands can have the sense of being encouraged, fortified, and empowered for action.
Today, we self dey stay for world wey katakata full. We know sey don promise to stop bad things wey dey happen.		We too live in a world filled with wickedness, which we know has promised to destroy.
We be like one family for the group wey I dey.		My construction group is like a family.
We get any reason to believe sey dey control the kind things wey dey happen for our life like that?		Is there sound reason to believe that maneuvers the events of our lives in such specific ways?
We no stay there pass two years before I come get serious sickness.		Sadly, within two years I developed serious medical problems, so we were urged to return to our homeland.
We tell for prayer sey, no matter wetin happen, we go serve am.		Dedication is a solemn vow to serve unconditionally.
Wetin Jesus mean when e come talk sey: ' Make wetin you get for mind happen '?		What did Jesus mean when he next said: " Let your will take place "?
Wetin be some of this things?		What might such things be?
Wetin help Paul fit continue to get strong love for?		What gave Paul the strength to maintain his love for God?
Wetin help one young person and one sister control the bad thing wey dem dey think?		How were two Christians helped to control wrong desires?
Wetin we fit learn from the example of Jacob?		What can we learn from the example of Jacob?
When we park our boat for any village wey we reach, the people go run come and dem go gather dey look.		When we anchored in a bay, our arrival would create quite a stir among the villagers, and people would gather on the jetty to see who we were.
Why e good for person to baptize?		Why is baptism such an important step?
Why e good make we no dey buy everything wey we like or see?		Why should we control our desire to want more material things?
Why e good sey make we get baptism for mind when we dey teach our children and other Bible student?		Why must Bible teachers bear in mind that baptism is a Christian requirement?
Why we no suppose miss Memorial? Why e good make we go Memorial?		Why is it important for us to be present at the Memorial if at all possible?
You dey show sey you love other people? Ask yourself: ' I dey try do everything wey I fit do to help people for my family, for congregation, and for preaching?		To analyze how well we are doing in showing love for others, we might ask ourselves: ' Am I reaching out to help others in my family, in my congregation, and in my ministry?
Make we love, no be for mouth, but make e show for wetin we dey do and make e dey real. ' - 1 JOHN 3: 18.		We should love, not in word or with the tongue, but in deed and truth. " - 1 JOHN 3: 18.
We fit get love and better mind like Jonathan?		Could we be as kind and loving as Jonathan?
Ask yourself, ' When I dey preach, I dey try make I fit read Bible for who I dey preach to? '		Ask yourself, ' Do I look for every opportunity to share a portion of God 's Word with those to whom I bring the good news? '
Tell us some of the things wey dey help you get better voice?		What suggestions for overcoming voice problems do you find practical?
Who be the Lamb for Revelation 5: 13, and why we suppose respect and praise am?		At Revelation 5: 13, who is the Lamb, and why is he worthy of honor?
Today, because people wey dey organization get one mind, dem dey preach the goodnews for the whole earth.		Today, knowledge of God 's wonderful purposes is being spread throughout the earth as a result of the efforts of those who are part of one united preaching organization.
But if we put all our mind now to learn the kind thing wey want, we go fit get good sense and deep sense to choose wetin go make am happy. ( Prov.		With diligent effort, however, we can even now acquire the wisdom, knowledge, and discernment needed to make wise decisions.
The leaders for religion of Jew people, no go talk with woman for public. And e go even hard them more if na Samaritan woman wey e life no straight.		Jewish religious leaders would not talk to a woman in public, let alone a Samaritan woman with a questionable reputation.
If person no love imself, e no go fit love other people.		If we do not love ourselves, we cannot love our neighbor.
Make the person no play with this kind promise at all. Instead, make e get the kind mind wey Bible talk about for Psalm, sey: ' Wetin I go give for all the good thing wey e don do for me?		Anyone who makes a dedication vow should take it very seriously, just as did the psalmist who spoke of the vows he had made to God: " With what will I repay for all the good he has done for me?
Who don give the work to train children?		Whom has assigned to raise children?
Before we go fit help our Bible student dey do personal Bible study, wetin we go first dey do?		Before we encourage our students to study the Bible on their own, what must we be doing?
Why e good make we dey pity for people and help dem? make human being to fit copy the fine fine character wey e get.		Why should you be interested in what the Bible says about compassion?
Wetin papa and mama go do to show sey dem dey obey if dem disfellowship their pikin?		If a child is disfellowshipped, how do Christian parents show that they obey God?
Memorial Dey Help Us Get One Mind		Pleasant Unity and the Memorial
Help ' Strangers ' Serve With Sweet Mind		Helping " Foreign Residents " to " Serve With Rejoicing "
People still dey hide do other things wey no clean.		The original Bible word translated " uncleanness " is a broad term that includes much more than sexual sins.
Like Timothy, you ready to leave some things so that you fit help other people?		Like Timothy, are you willing to make personal sacrifices for the good of others?
And, the person wey sitdown for throne talk sey: ' See am!		And, the one seated on the throne, says: " Look!
And some no get money at all.		Many have had to endure poverty or have suffered during civil wars or natural disasters.
Another trap wey Satan de use na things about demons.		Another effective bait that Satan uses is curiosity about the occult.
Anytime people come our house, we dey play Bible game. And this one help our children like Bible story.		When we had guests, we often played Bible games, and our children grew to love the Bible 's historical accounts.
Apostle John write sey: ' Person wey no love im brother wey e dey see, no fit love God wey e never see. '		The apostle John wrote: " The one who does not love his brother, whom he has seen, cannot love God, whom he has not seen. "
Araceli: I dey like to preach to all the priest and Catholic sister wey I meet, may be na because I don be Catholic sister before.		Araceli: I like to speak about to all the priests and nuns I meet, perhaps because I was a nun.
As Bible talk, Paul work na to dey make tent. But no be that one be the main thing for im life. The main thing for im life na to dey preach and teach people.		After showing that Paul worked as a tentmaker, the record reveals what his life was centered on: He regularly gave attention to the Christian preaching and teaching work.
Because Adam and Eve no follow wetin talk, dem no be as make dem again; dem come get sin for body.		By rebelling against, Adam and Eve lost their perfection.
Because na im make everything and na im be the King wey high pass. ( 1 Tim.		Because he is the Creator of all things and the almighty Sovereign of the universe.
Because we no fit force people to serve.		Because we cannot force people to become disciples.
Bethel work dey sweet because everything wey you dey do for there na for.		Bethel service is a happy way of life because everything you do there is for.
Bible advise us sey: ' Throw all the things wey dey worry una give am, because e dey care for una. ' ( 1 Pet.		The Bible urges us: " Throw all your anxiety [ " cares; worries, " ftn. ] on him, because he cares for you. "
Brother Diehl still talk other things wey happen, e sey: ' Dem no let me give talk again.		Brother Diehl went on to explain: " I was not permitted to give talks.
But, na when e start to do wetin e dey learn, e go show sey e don dey get sense.		However, when he puts the truth into practice, using knowledge and understanding in a right way, he is becoming wise.
But Bible tell us sey: " Person wey like silver no dey ever get the one wey go belleful am. And if person like money and property, the one wey e get no dey ever reach am. " ( Eccl.		Yet, the Bible cautions: " A lover of silver will never be satisfied with silver, nor a lover of wealth with income. "
But as I dey pray and dey listen to wetin my wife dey talk, e come easy for us every day.		But by seeking 's guidance in prayer and really listening to my wife 's input, it gets easier every day.
But e no make sense for person to think sey if e pikin never baptize, no go hold am for wetin e dey do.		However, it would be a mistake to conclude that by not being baptized, a child is not accountable to.
But wetin make am pray sey e no want too get money?		But why did he pray not to have riches?
Daniel no know when this one go happen.		No date or length of time was given.
Dem still put Hans Hlterhoff for prison because e no gree join army. For there, e no gree do any work wey concern the war.		Hans Hlterhoff, who also refused the draft, went to prison, where he rejected all war - related work.
E do wetin e learn and e come baptize. Now im and Joyce, im wife, dey happy to dey preach the good news about God Kingdom.		He made quick progress, was baptized, and now enjoys preaching the good news of the Kingdom along with his wife, Joyce.
E never tey wey Paul reach Macedonia, when dem put am for prison!		Soon after he arrived in Macedonia, he ended up in prison!
E no dey count how many times person do am bad. '		It does not keep account of the injury. "
E no still easy for other people to greet because of their skin color, their culture, or who they be for their community.		Some find it difficult to greet others who are of a different race, culture, or social standing.
E sey: " Dem sofri do am.		They took great care, " she explained.
Even Bildad wey be Shuhite talk sey e no get how human being want take good for God eye. - Read Job 25: 4.		His associate, Bildad the Shuhite, even argued that a righteous standing before God is not possible for humans. - Read Job 25: 4.
Even if e dey prison dey wait, e no dey pray make that day come.		He is forced to wait, and he is not looking forward to the outcome.
Even if we no dey together again, and our work wey we dey do for don change, we still be friend till today. '		Though our lives and assignments have changed, our friendships remain. "
Even though sey this kind thing dey happen to us, we no go let am stop us or make us no serve again.		Our inherited imperfection does not need to prevent us from enjoying 's friendship or continuing to serve him.
Even with that one, the king and e army " do the thing wey talk. They go back to their house, as don tell them. "		Nevertheless, the king and his armies " obeyed the word of and went back home, as had told them. "
Faith no be wetin you fit give person.		They commented: " Faith is not something you inherit.
For 2015, Governing Body release one book wey dem dey call Return to. This book don really encourage many brothers and sisters.		In addition, in 2015 the Governing Body published the brochure Return to, which has proved to be a rich source of encouragement to many throughout the world.
For example, one sister wey im name na Jennifer, stay airport for three days.		Jennifer spent three days at an airport waiting for a flight home.
For one place, e write sey: ' Today, I learn about God name.		One entry read: " I learned God 's name today.
For our time, we get many example of brothers wey don use all their power do work for many years. And dem don still train other people to fit do more work.		Today, there are many examples of brothers who have worked energetically for decades and who have prepared others to take on increased responsibility.
For the Law wey give Israel people, men fit keep their beard beard.		The Mosaic Law required men to wear a beard.
For this topic, we go learn wetin help Jephthah and im pikin to still get faith, even when things no easy for dem.		This article will show what helped Jephthah and his daughter to remain faithful even during difficult times.
How Abraham take show sey e trust to judge well?		How did Abraham express confidence in 's sense of justice?
How papa and elders fit do like?		How can elders and family heads imitate?
How we fit let ' endurance finish im work '? - James 1: 4.		And how can we " let endurance complete its work "? - James 1: 4.
I come talk sey, " Yes, I want baptize. "		I replied, " Yes, I do. "
I dey happy to meet brothers and sisters from different different place wey come the school dem		I enjoy meeting students from around the globe
I happy as the brothers dey patient with me as them de train me.		I appreciated how patient and helpful the brothers were in training me.
If husband no get this kind love for im wife, e go hard the wife to enjoy sex for the marriage.		If a wife is not treated tenderly, she may find it difficult to enjoy this aspect of marriage.
If papa and mama see sey the money wey dem dey spend pass wetin dem dey get, dem fit try to reduce am. Or, dem fit start to dey live simple life because dem want do more for work.		A family may make adjustments as they seek to balance income with expenses or as they consider how to simplify their life and reduce expenses in order to do more for.
If we dey think about the many things wey don do for us, we no go begin raise shoulder because people dey praise us.		Our meditating on how much God has done for us will help us to avoid an attitude that hates.
If we dey think like Jesus, we go happy and our life go make sense.		Being spiritually - minded can help us to make our daily life happier and more satisfying.
If we want make our conscience guide us for the right way, we must train - am.		For our conscience to be an effective guide, it must be trained.
If your language get JW Language app, you fit use am learn how to greet stranger for their different different language. - Read Philippians 2: 3, 4.		If available in your language, the JW Language app can help you learn how to greet newcomers in their mother tongue. - Read Philippians 2: 3, 4.
Im friend wey im name na Antonio, help am when e get problem.		With the help of his dear friend Antonio, he got through a rough patch in his life.
Instead, dem go help their pikin continue to do well as im power reach.		Rather, they assist each child to make spiritual advancement in keeping with his or her own growth and progress.
James still tell dem sey: ' Na sin e be if una continue to dey do partial. '		Then he added: " If you continue showing favoritism, you are committing sin. "
name dey show the kind Person wey e be. Na im be the King wey get power pass and wey holy pass.		s name embraces the full scope of His excellence, majesty, and holiness.
Jew people know this one and dem no argue am. Na im make dem agree sey Christ go come from David wey be Jesse last son. - Matt.		The Jews recognized this and accepted it, as when they admitted that the Christ was to descend through David, Jesse 's last son. - Matt.
Judges 4: 14, 15 talk three times sey help dem win.		Three times at Judges 4: 14, 15, the victory is attributed to.
Luke talk about how angel Gabriel take visit Mary, how Mary take go visit Elizabeth wey be im family member, and wetin Mary talk to praise.		It includes Mary 's being visited by the angel Gabriel, her visit to her relative Elizabeth, and Mary 's expression of praise to.
Make una march go Mount Tabor. I go make Sisera wey be oga for Jabin army come meet you for Kishon river. E go come with im chariot and army dem, and I go make am lose the fight. ' - Judg.		I will bring to you Sisera, the chief of Jabin 's army, along with his war chariots and his troops to the stream of Kishon, and I will give him into your hand. " - Judg.
Make we ask ourself sey, ' Which other thing I go do to pull the old character trowey? '		Each of us should ask himself, ' What more can I do to strip off and keep off the old personality? '
Make we see other better things wey we go gain if we dey show love.		What further benefits come from cultivating love?
Many Jew people wey Jesus preach to, no want make government for Rome de rule them again.		Many Jews to whom Jesus preached longed for independence from Rome.
Many of our brothers and sisters today no dey join any side for politics or war.		Many in our time have remained neutral.
Many times, na only me dey go preaching. But if I follow person waka, I dey learn from am.		Although I often went out and worked from house to house alone, I also learned by preaching with others.
Mar. Use Better Mind Wait for!		May Your Volunteer Spirit Bring Praise to!
My papa and mama no leave before dem die. I dey wait for the time wey I go see dem again for paradise.		My parents both died faithful to, and I look forward to welcoming them back in a much better world.
My wife, Maria, learn about for Ukraine when dem dey fight World War II.		My wife, Maria, learned the truth in Ukraine in the middle of World War II.
Na problem wey we go fit bear - if we trust God. ( 1 Pet.		Such trials are not beyond our capacity to bear - provided we rely on God.
Na so because Matthew write many things about Joseph. But Luke write many things about Mary.		Matthew 's account about the events related to Jesus ' birth and early life differs somewhat from Luke 's account because the Gospel writers told the events from different perspectives.
Na so many people for Ireland take learn the truth.		According to eyewitness accounts, many learned the truth in this way.
Na this kind baptism correct for God eye.		This would be the only water baptism having God 's approval.
No be the same time e dey take everybody to enjoy new congregation.		Likewise, not everyone adapts to a new congregation at the same pace.
Nobody don fit count all the stars wey God make.		No one has been able to count all the stars in the universe.
ONE farmer go market one early morning go find people wey go work for im farm.		A WINEGROWER went to the marketplace early one morning to hire men to work in his vineyard.
Paul sey: ' Continue to dey support each other and dey make each other strong, as una dey do now. ' If we put this advice for mind, we go use every chance wey we get to talk wetin go make people strong. ( 1 Thess.		We will very likely find many ways to build others up spiritually if we are determined to apply Paul 's counsel: " Keep encouraging one another and building one another up, just as you are in fact doing. "
People wey dey serve suppose know where to praise and respect person reach.		Christians need to have a balanced view of how to show respect and honor.
Peter and John get different character.		There may be some basis for such ideas about those two apostles.
Peter carry body down, e listen to wetin apostle Paul talk.		Evidently, Peter humbly accepted Paul 's corrective counsel.
SONG: 3, 47		SONGS: 3, 47
So e no want make people think sey e no dey worship God again. Daniel know sey dem fit kill am if dem catch am dey pray, but e no let that one stop am.		So while it meant risking his life, Daniel decided not to give even the impression that he was compromising in his worship.
Some people don read the truth for Bible and dem want learn more!		They had now had a taste of God 's Word - and they wanted more!
Some people sey dem dey serve God, but e no dey show for their character. People wey dey serve no be like that.		Those who have come to know and serve are not like those who have an appearance of godliness but prove false to its power, who behave as if they worship God but belie that claim by their conduct.
The Oxford Dictionary of the Christian Church ( 1997 edition ) still talk something about this book wey describe Paul. E sey: " E dey possible sey some of the things wey dey ' Acts of Paul and Thecla ' na things wey really happen. "		The Oxford Dictionary of the Christian Church ( 1997 edition ) says about that ancient writing: " It is not impossible that the ' Acts ' contain some elements of historical truth. "
The last thing wey Peter write for im book, na for im junior brother and senior sister.		Peter 's last comments were addressed to his siblings.
The thing wey happen for Kevin life, show sey na Bible dey help people change so that dem go get better character.		Kevin 's experience shows that the Bible helps God 's people to continue making positive changes in their life.
Think am sey one boat dey sink.		Imagine a ship that is sinking.
To talk to Witness that time fit put person for wahala. But wetin we later learn from that woman change our life.		Talking to the in those days was risky, but what we later learned from Apun transformed our lives.
To talk true, e no easy to follow dem talk because dem no sabi sign language.		To be honest, communicating with them was not easy, since they did not know sign language.
Two pioneer sisters de give tract to one woman for Freetown, the capital of Sierra Leone. This time na rainy season for that country		Two pioneers offer a tract to a passerby in the capital, Freetown, during the country 's long rainy season
We go still dey serve with im people?		What will we do on such occasions?
We still dey happy sey give us life and e make us to fit enjoy am.		We also treasure the gift of life and our ability to enjoy it.
Wetin be the ' world ' wey Bible talk sey ' dey comot '?		What, though, is included in " the world " that is " passing away "?
Wetin happen make me remember sey, e good make we no stop to preach because we no know whether the person go come serve.		That wonderful experience reminded me of the importance to keep preaching because we never know where or when the truth will take root.
Wetin we go gain if we dey show love?		How do we benefit from showing love?
Wetin we go talk about for this topic?		What will this article consider?
When Arthur dey greet Brother Nathan Knorr when e come the convention for 1965		Arthur greeting Nathan Knorr on his arrival for the 1965 convention
When Jesus don go back to heaven, e talk something about Christians wey dey Ephesus for apostle time. E sey: ' This na wetin I take hold una, sey una don forget the love wey una first get. ' ( Rev.		Speaking to first - century Christians living in Ephesus, the resurrected Jesus Christ said: " I hold this against you, that you have left the love you had at first. "
When dem cross the border, Michael and im family see theirself again.		The parents and children were reunited on the other side of the border.
When dem open the container, Zechariah see one woman wey sitdown inside.		When the lid is removed, Zechariah sees " a woman sitting inside. "
When food finish for the whole place, Joseph brother dem come buy food for Egypt but dem no know am again.		When a famine struck the region, Joseph 's brothers came to Egypt to buy food but did not recognize him.
Where dem carry am go?		Where are they taking her?
Why e good to know the kind pikin wey you get?		Why is it so important to know your children well?
Yes, e dey!		Yes!
You Fit Enjoy Your Marriage!		You Can Share in Strengthening Our Christian Unity - How?
You fit don hear some people talk sey our problem don dey come down. Dem sey war, sickness, poverty and other bad things no too dey again.		Also, the idea that man can solve his own problems may sound convincing because - according to some studies - war, crime, disease, and poverty are all decreasing.
Make every man love im wife as e take love imself; and make the wife respect im husband well well. ' - EPH.		Each one of you must love his wife as he does himself;. the wife should have deep respect for her husband. " - EPH.
[CONTENT_REMOVED]		What did it involve?
From Adam time go reach Noah time, people wey serve no plenty.		In the generations from Adam to the Flood of Noah 's day, only a few individuals are identified as worshippers of.
Samaritan people their culture and religion dey different from Jew people their own.		The Samaritan people were ethnically and religiously distinct from the Jews.
If your talk get outline, abeg study the outline well.		When a talk is based on an outline provided by the organization, study the outline and the scriptures it uses.
David no dey talk sey e no go die or dey inside Grave.		David was not saying that he would never die or be in the common grave of mankind.
For long time now, Watchtower magazine don call Christians for congregation ' brothers and sisters. '		The Watchtower has long described Christian believers as ' brothers and sisters. '
How we suppose to dey look work?		How should we view secular pursuits?
How take help Daniel?		How was Daniel blessed for his courageous loyalty to God?
How Jesus help the people make them know why e come this earth?		How did Jesus correct their thinking?
Jesus no just choose im apostles to dey follow am go preach but dem go still do one special work for God people.		Jesus had selected his apostles not merely to accompany him in his ministry but to play a crucial role among God 's people.
Johannes Rauthe na one of dem; dem send am make e go work for railway.		Johannes Rauthe took such a stand and was sent to work on the railways.
Na so all of us still get value for eye, even if e get things wey we no fit do.		Similarly, cares for each one of us despite our limitations.
Story About People Life - God Show Us Im Favor for Different Different Way		Life Story - We Experienced God 's Undeserved Kindness in Many Ways
Find Wetin Better Pass Gold		Seek Something Much Better Than Gold
We dey sure sey, this one help Noah continue to get strong faith.		No doubt, doing so helped Noah keep his faith strong.
Chron. 32: 24 ) When only Hezekiah and this Babylon people dey, e show dem all the gold and silver wey e get for im house.		Revealing what was in his heart when " left. alone, " Hezekiah showed those Babylonians " his entire treasure - house. "
True true, fit do everything!		Surely all things are possible with!
Wetin we learn from wetin Paul talk?		How do Paul 's words show that strong measures are needed to strip off the old personality?
After I baptize, me and my mama always dey go preaching together.		From that time on, my mother and I shared regularly in the field service together.
After don help am win im enemy dem, e carry their juju come house, come dey worship am. - 2 Chron.		After gaining the victory over God 's enemies, he brought back their gods and began worshipping them. - 2 Chron.
After Nineveh people repent, God change wetin e sey e want do dem.		After the people repented, God changed his decision about Nineveh.
All this kind website no be the correct place to take " sofri sofri tell people wey stubborn wetin dem go do. " ( 2 Tim.		An online forum is not an appropriate setting for " instructing with mildness those not favorably disposed. "
Almost everything wey e talk when e dey this world na from Bible.		A good portion of what he said was either a quotation from or an allusion to the Hebrew Scriptures.
And e sweet me sey dem stilll dey do their work well for the place wey organization send dem go. Because of my work, I don visit country wey pass 90.		It has been a privilege and a delight to visit over 90 countries in connection with that work.
And maybe we even need to dey careful pass dem.		And the danger is still with us, perhaps even more so.
Because Jesus don accept us, even as we be sinners, make we no ever reject any person!		Since Jesus has kindly accepted us, as imperfect as we are, it should be unthinkable for us to reject anyone else!
Because we want enter God Kingdom, many of us don stop to do many bad things. ( Rom. 12: 2 ) But we no go just relax.		Granted, many of us have made life - transforming changes to become subjects of God 's Kingdom.
Before papa and mama think about wetin go favor dem, make dem first think about wetin go favor their children.		Christian parents put their children 's spiritual well - being ahead of personal preferences.
But, no be so the leaders for other land be, because dem wicked and dem dey think of only theirself.		What a contrast to the harsh and self - centered leaders of other lands!
But Jesus no be like that. E do wetin show sey na choose am. E do everything to show sey na be the main person wey dey lead im people.		Jesus, on the other hand, gave convincing evidence of being appointed by God, and he constantly glorified as the Supreme Leader of his people.
But different - different example for Bible show say greeting fit do pass that one.		Scriptural examples show that greetings can do more than make others feel welcome.
But how we take dey behave if dem tell us to do something wey we no like?		But how do we react when we are asked to do something that we do not like?
But papa and mama wey get sense, go show sey dem get strong mind for this matter.		However, wise parents show courage and put faith in 's promises.
But this time they invite me for one small meeting wey the name na Congregation Book Study. Na for their house them de do this meeting.		This time, however, they invited me to come to a Congregation Book Study, a small meeting for Bible study and discussion that was held in their home.
Dem come send am go circuit work for Switzerland.		After graduation, he was eventually assigned to the circuit work in Switzerland.
Dem go still talk about why e be sey if we want thank God for the love wey e show us, we go dey tell people how dem go fit gain from the favor wey dey show us.		They also explain why our deep gratitude for these expressions of love should move us to make known to others how they too can benefit from 's undeserved kindness.
Dem put Joseph for prison because e no gree do wetin hate.		She felt like Joseph, who was imprisoned for keeping his integrity.
Dem sey: " We try help our pikin make dem see the many things wey make us dey enjoy life and why dem no suppose take am play. "		We try to develop in our daughters a great respect for life and its wonderful complexity, " say the parents.
E allow sin control am.		Then sin overwhelmed him.
E come pray to, and e go meet prophet Isaiah to advise am.		He approached in prayer and turned to 's prophet Isaiah for advice.
E fit no easy, but if we try we fit win the fight.		Our goal should be to avoid gross sins as well as wrongs that are not as flagrant.
E get serious heart problem. The doctor come dey fear sey e go die. So dem come tell am make e comot the belle.		Because she suffered from a chronic heart condition, the doctors feared for her life and tried to convince her to have an abortion.
E go don see many things wey make am believe sey God dey, and wey help am know the kind person wey God be. For example, Noah fit don see sey God get power well well, and na only im be the true God. ( Rom.		By observing the physical creation, Noah would have seen abundant evidence not only of God 's existence but also of his many invisible qualities, such as " his eternal power and Godship. "
E really good make we change like them!		And how important these changes are!
E talk sey the work wey dem go do, go pass im own. And e still let dem know sey God love dem well well.		He predicted that they would do works greater than his, and he assured them that God had affection for them.
For July 1942 when I dey 11 years, dem baptize me for inside tank for one farm.		In July 1942, at the age of 11, I was baptized in a water tank on a farm.
For jw.org, you go still see wetin Bible dey teach and our book dem for many language.		Bible education is also promoted on our website, jw.org, where we have literature available in hundreds of languages.
From that time, people wey dey lead for Church and the government for Rome come dey do things together.		From that time on, Church and State began working hand in hand.
George and Adria talk sey when dem first reach Ghana, e be like sey na olden days.		George and Adria relate that when they first moved to Ghana, they felt as if they had gone back in time.
How Jephthah and im pikin example fit help us mek we no dey do the bad things wey people dey do?		How can the example of Jephthah and his daughter help us resist worldly influences?
How elders take help one sister?		How did one sister benefit from the loving help of the elders in the congregation?
How holy spirit fit help us?		How can holy spirit help us?
How we de " endure as we de produce fruit "?		How do we " bear fruit with endurance "?
How we fit help our brothers and sisters for congregation with wetin we dey tell dem?		What effect can positive words have on fellow Christians?
How you fit do more make your light de shine so that your neighbor go fit learn truth for Bible?		What about increasing your efforts to let the light of Bible truth shine in your neighborhood?
How young men for congregation fit work well with the old brothers?		How should younger ones cooperate with older ones?
I no dey respect dem at all!		I was really rude!
If Noah mama, and im brothers and sisters still dey alive when the heavy rain fall, dem no survive am.		If Noah 's mother and siblings were alive when the Flood began, they did not survive it.
If you do this things, sex matter wey no clean for God eye no go make you miss wetin promise. - Read Psalm 34: 18; Proverbs 13: 20.		If that ever happens to you, turn to and his people for help so as not to allow yourself to be deprived of the prize. - Read Psalm 34: 18; Proverbs 13: 20.
fit really make im mind come down. E dey use Jesus Christ, Bible, and brothers and sisters for congregation take make im mind come down.		provides much - needed consolation by means of Jesus Christ, the Scriptures, and the Christian congregation.
people need help. Dem need to remember sey dem suppose do work first before their own.		God 's people needed to be reminded that they should return to and stop putting their personal pursuits first.
Jesus and Boaz show elders better example!		What fine examples Jesus and Boaz are for Christian elders!
Jesus promise im disciple sey if dem put God Kingdom first for their life, God go support dem.		Jesus assured his disciples that if they would put the Kingdom first, God would support them.
Like other people wey write Bible, John really understand wetin faith mean.		Did he appreciate the depth of meaning that other Bible writers had been inspired to explain respecting true Christian faith?
Many people dey talk sey: " You fit still happy even if you no dey any religion. "		You can be happy without religion.
Many people wey dey follow Wycliffe wey dem dey call Lollards, come dey use the Bible.		It quickly gained popularity among followers of Wycliffe.
My mama get many Bible student and e no dey use preaching play at all.		In fact, there was a time when she held some of her studies as a group because her students lived quite near to one another.
Na this one make Philippians 2: 12 talk sey make you " continue to dey fear God and dey do things wey go save " you.		In fact, Philippians 2: 12 says: " Keep working out your own salvation with fear and trembling. "
Na to find which of the religion dey teach the truth wey dey Bible.		He had carefully compared the teachings of many different religions, even non - Christian religions, with what the Bible says.
Nehemiah still ' arrange plenty choir wey e share into two group, to dey use song thank God. '		This time, there were " two large thanksgiving choirs. "
Nicholas come go back to Kartsa. For there, Ilias my senior brother come dey ask am many question about Bible.		He made his way back to Kartsa, where my older brother, Ilias, bombarded him with questions about the Bible.
No Forget the Main Thing, June		I Know He Will Rise, " Dec.
One Bible dictionary talk sey: " To go plant grass for another person farm because e do you bad, na bad thing for Roman law.		Sowing darnel in a field for purposes of revenge. was a crime under Roman legislation.
One day, e tell me how e receive strong correction from Brother Joseph F. Rutherford.		One day, he told me of an occasion when he received firm counsel from Joseph F.
One time wey e go im pikin graduation for school, the teachers tell am sey dem happy to dey teach Witness children wey dey the school.		The teachers told Birgit that it had been a pleasure to work with Witness children over the years.
Our own no be like prisoner wey know sey dem go kill am one day.		Our situation is not like that of a prisoner who is waiting in his cell for his execution.
Paul write give Christians wey dey Rome, sey: ' I tell everybody wey dey with una sey, make e no dey think about imself pass the way e suppose think, but make e dey think about how e go get better mind, everybody as God take give am faith.		To Christians in Rome, Paul wrote: " I tell everyone there among you not to think more of himself than it is necessary to think, but to think so as to have a sound mind, each one as God has given to him a measure of faith.
The ark save Noah and im family!		Indeed, he had to!
The helmet wey go save us ( Check paragraph 15 - 18 )		The helmet of salvation ( See paragraphs 15 - 18 )
The one wey e better pass be say, go bless you. And for paradise, peace go dey everywhere and you go enjoy - am forever. - 2 Pet.		Most important, you will gain 's approval and find abundant and everlasting peace in God 's new world. - 2 Pet.
The time wey im two boys be eight and ten years, e teach dem about this earth and how take make am.		When her two boys were eight and ten respectively, she taught them about earth 's atmosphere and the care showed in making it.
This na the first example of person wey Bible talk about wey dem bring come life.		That was the first resurrection of Bible record.
This one really pain Hannah reach bone.		That caused Hannah great anguish and distress.
This verse talk sey ' the things wey God don make go free from sin, and dem go get the freedom wey God children get. '		This verse promises that " the creation itself will also be set free from enslavement to corruption and have the glorious freedom of the children of God. "
Time dey come when people wey no stop to serve, go serve am with body wey no get sin.		Loyal worshippers of will eventually have the privilege of serving him forever in perfection.
WE FIT talk sey person wey like wetin dey Bible be like person wey dey find gold.		IN SOME ways, sincere Bible students are like prospectors looking for gold.
We go talk some example of how we fit do this one for our life.		To train ourselves to think this way, let us take a look at a few sample situations.
Wetin I go do so that my life go really match wetin I dey learn for Bible? '		How can I make further progress in allowing the Bible to change my life? '
Wetin Rehoboam go do?		What would he do?
Wetin Sylviana talk don happen to you before?		Can you relate to the feelings expressed by Sylviana?
Wetin be some things wey fit cause problem for marriage?		What are some causes of ' tribulation in the flesh '?
Wetin dey sweet us to do every time?		What do we really pursue day in and day out?
Wetin go later happen if the husband come know?		Later, when he finds out what was hidden, what will be the result?
Wetin we fit learn from their example wey go help us for organization today?		Does this Bible account contain a lesson that we are wise to apply within God 's organization today?
When we dey forgive people, e dey show sey we like to make peace.		When we forgive others, we prove ourselves to be peacemakers.
Which bad character some people get? How some of dem don take change?		What animalistic qualities do many display, but how have some changed for the better?
Why e good make we dey gentle and still dey patient?		Why are mildness and patience important?
Yes o! dey read mind, e know when to pity for person and when e no suppose pity for am. ( Lam.		He can read people 's hearts, and he knows when compassion is not warranted.
You go come fit waka go where you dey go, nothing go do you.		Then you will walk on your way in safety, and your foot will never stumble. "
I go tell people about name. Im na God wey no dey fail person, wey no dey ever do partial. ' - DEUT.		I will declare the name of., a God of faithfulness who is never unjust. " - DEUT.
Still think about the better things wey we fit gain from the books wey God use Paul write for Bible.		And consider how much benefit we can draw from the Bible books that inspired Paul to write.
With wetin Jesus talk for Luke 21: 19, why e dey good make we endure?		According to Luke 21: 19, why is endurance so important?
But we know say destroy the plan wey Satan and the wicked angels get. use heavy rain destroy all that wicked children wey the angels born.		In any case, ended all such plots by bringing the Flood - a move that thwarted the efforts of Satan and the rebellious angels at that time.
We fit agree with wetin Bible talk, but wetin we go do if brother or sister do wetin pain us?		We may readily acknowledge this fact, but the challenge is when we are personally affected by the imperfections of a brother.
E fit be say Nathanael know wetin Micah 5: 2 talk about the Messiah. And maybe Nathanael think say Nazareth no too dey important for Messiah to come from there.		Apparently, Nathanael knew of the prophecy at Micah 5: 2 and considered Nazareth too insignificant to be the Messiah 's hometown.
But even as Satan de control the world, plenty government still de do some good things for their people.		Despite Satan 's evil influence, many governments do a measure of good for their citizens.
When all this suffer don end, Joseph come reach to do one special work.		When those tests ended, Joseph qualified for a special assignment.
Paul dey sure sey dem go continue to do wetin good and dem go dey gain from the favor wey God dey show.		Paul was sure that they could remain spiritually clean and thus continue to benefit from God 's undeserved kindness.
How we fit do like Asa?		How can we imitate the way Asa depended on God?
Which question dem e good to think about?		What questions should all of 's people ask themselves?
How things be for Israel people when send Zechariah go meet dem?		What was the situation of 's people when Zechariah began prophesying?
Satan dey use all the fake fake religion wey full the whole world take dey deceive people.		Satan blinds people 's minds through the world empire of false religion.
Brothers and sisters for the congregation go don see this one as chance to copy how and Jesus take dey forgive.		Members of the congregation thus had an opportunity to imitate Jesus and his Father by extending forgiveness.
Wetin go help you no believe im lie?		How can you resist his propaganda?
The person wey e invite us fit don work hard to prepare wetin we go chop. - w18.03, p.		The host likely has worked hard to prepare the meal. - w18.03, p.
So if the way you dey work fit put person life for danger, and elder correct you, listen to am.		If an elder reminds you of safety rules and standards, therefore, accept his counsel.
Plenty people don accept this good news. E don help them make they no de feel bad about theirself or vex for the bad things wey people de do for this world.		As a result, they are no longer overwhelmed with feelings of despair or anger over what they see happening around them.
For this topic, we go answer three main question wey go help us continue to near. ( 1 ) Wetin go help us check how our friendship with be?		To help us to continue progressing, we will answer three key questions in this article: ( 1 ) What will help us to analyze the true state of our spirituality?
But e no succeed to help plenty Jew people. Instead, many of them no gree listen to wetin e talk.		Still, he did not succeed in moving many Jews to become true worshippers.
Wetin husband suppose dey do as head for family?		What is a husband 's responsibility as a family head?
Why e be sey na only you fit do wetin go save you?		In what way is dedication a personal responsibility?
Governing Body divide theirself to form six group. This six group still dey change their chairman every year.		Each of the six committees of the Governing Body rotate chairmanship in the same way.
For our time, many things dey wey person fit dey serve but e no go quick know.		Today, idolatry can take many forms, some of which might be hard to recognize.
For 1 Corinthians 10, Paul dey talk about wetin Israel people face when dem dey wilderness. ( 1 Cor.		In the context of 1 Corinthians 10: 13, Paul refers to the tests that Israel faced in the wilderness.
Job 1: 4, 5 ) But because e dey think only wetin im body want, Esau trowey the right wey e get because of one plate of stew.		But with his fleshly bent of mind, Esau gave away all such privileges for a bowl of stew.
Adria talk sey: " Na bucket we dey use wash, instead of washing machine.		Instead of using a washing machine, we used buckets.
After Jesus die, e be like sey Joseph no come dey fear again, e come dey support Jesus disciple. How we take know?		By the time of Jesus ' death, Joseph had evidently overcome his fears, and he decided to throw in his lot with Jesus ' followers.
And if e still dey their mind like that, the matter go still dey ground. People no go get one mind about the matter, and problem go still dey.		As long as the question remains unsettled in the minds of humans or angels, discord among nations, races, tribes, families, and individuals will exist.
And this one make God people that time fit do wetin God want.		Those changes brought God 's ancient people into harmony with his will.
As David dey run, Hushai go meet am.		While David was fleeing, Hushai went to him.
Because I want make peace dey, e no go better if I just forget about wetin the person do me? - Prov.		Can I, for the sake of peace, overlook the injustice? - Prov.
Because of wetin happen, the officer wey dey guide the prison come want kill imself. But Paul quick stop am.		Paul stops the jailer from committing suicide.
Because the sister sabi John language, e use am take answer im question from Bible. After, e come give am this book " This Good News of the Kingdom. "		Having learned John 's native Gujarati, the Witness answered him from the Bible and gave him the booklet " This Good News of the Kingdom. "
Bible no talk say make we no drink.		The Bible does not condemn the moderate use of alcohol.
Bible tell us sey: " If anybody love God, God know this person. "		The Bible assures us: " If anyone loves God, this one is known by him. "
But dem trust to help dem.		It came from reliance on.
But e no gree.		Yet, Barzillai declined.
But the one wey surprise me be sey, black people and oyibo people do things together with one mind. "		But most of all, you are truly multiracial. "
But the sin wey dey our body dey make am hard for us sometimes.		Regardless of how fervent that desire may be, however, our imperfect state renders us incapable of pleasing God at all times.
Deborah and Barak praise ' the people wey dey lead Israel, wey use their mind follow the people go. '		Deborah and Barak commended " the commanders of Israel, who went as volunteers with the people. "
Dem dey wait for one special visitor. The visitor na Joseph F. Rutherford.		With cameras ready, they are at the train station, awaiting the arrival of a special guest - Joseph F.
Dem tire, but dem no stop.		They got tired, but they did not give up.
E carry body down, go meet the brother wey e talk bad about, to settle the matter with am.		He humbly apologized face - to - face to the brother he had hurt.
E come learn many things from wetin Jesus dey teach, even though sey Jesus come from Nazareth.		He decided to learn more about what Jesus, a man from Nazareth, was teaching.
E fit be sey Gaius na elder for congregation. But the letter no talk whether im na elder or no be elder.		Gaius might well have been a congregation overseer, but the letter does not specifically say so.
E get one night wey my papa come carry me from school because dem dey bomb the area well well.		One night, Father came there to take me to safety because Graz was being heavily bombed.
E show us sey, for World War I people don dey comot hand from fake religion and dem dey help other people dey comot. No be that time fake religion start to dey control dem at all.		That far from becoming enslaved to Babylon the Great during the war, these Christian men and women were breaking free from its influence and were helping others to do so.
E tell dem sey: ' Give everybody wetin dem suppose get: the one wey you suppose give tax, give am tax; the one wey you suppose respect, respect am. ' - Rom.		He instructed them: " Render to all their dues: to the one who calls for the tax, the tax;. to the one who calls for honor, such honor. " - Rom.
Eli know wetin dey happen but e no correct dem well.		Eli knew about this and should have disciplined them, but he was lax in that regard.
Give example wey show sey better thing dey come out when we help people for preaching.		Give examples of the rewards that come from showing compassion in the ministry.
How Noah take know, and how that one take help am?		How did Noah come to know, and how did accurate knowledge help him?
I dey preach with testimony card ( one small card wey dem write Bible message put ) and phonograph ( something wey dey play record ).		Apart from weekends, I worked mostly alone, using a testimony card and a phonograph.
I go help you. '		I will help you "?
I tell am sey God want make we dey preach the good news about im Kingdom. ( Matt.		I explained that it is God 's will that we preach the good news of God 's Kingdom.
If no help us, we no go fit pull the old character comot for body by ourself.		Stripping off old personality traits cannot be done in one 's own strength.
If people want come dey argue about whether e good for man to marry man or for woman to marry woman, or sey e good to comot belle, show dem wetin Bible talk. Still tell dem how you take dey do wetin Bible talk.		If people want to argue about a topic, such as same - sex marriage or abortion, tell them what God 's Word says and how you try to follow it in your life.
If your answer na yes, we give you hand!		If so, that is wonderful!
Im name na Tom. E talk sey: " One brother wey be elder for many years, make me im friend, and train me well.		Tom, an elder for many years, recalls: " An experienced elder took me under his wing and gave me excellent training.
Instead, we need to study am well so that we fit see better things for inside wey go help us.		We need to work at finding spiritual gems that will help us.
Jesus talk sey: ' Make una put God Kingdom, and dey do wetin God want first for una life, and God go give una all this things wey una need. ' ( Matt.		Jesus said: " Keep on, then, seeking first the Kingdom and his righteousness, and all these other things [ basic material needs ] will be added to you. "
Last year, we print 440,000,000 Memorial invitation for language wey pass 530.		Last year, we produced some 440,000,000 copies in more than 530 languages.
Later, Elisha come follow the woman go Shunem. - 2 Ki.		Then the grieving mother arrived with Elisha. - 2 Ki.
Later, e come know and start to serve am.		Despite having had a tragic upbringing, she had responded to the Bible 's message and had dedicated her life to.
Like Jehoshaphat wey go preach make people for Ephraim come serve again, make we try help people wey no dey come meeting or preaching again.		And just as Jehoshaphat went to the territory of Ephraim to help people return to true worship, we can reach out to those who have become inactive.
Make your Kingdom come.		Let your Kingdom come.
Many people baptize when dem dey young, and dem continue to serve well.		Many get baptized at a young age, and they go on to be faithful to.
Maureen wey dey 64 years now, talk sey: " When I dey grow, wetin dey my mind na to use my life help other people. "		Growing up, I longed for a purposeful life, one that would help others, " relates Maureen, now in her mid - 60 ' s.
Na for the hospital wey dey the convent I come dey work.		I worked in the convent hospital.
Na person go choose wetin e want do for this kind matter. So some people fit dey think sey dem fit choose anything wey dem like so far their conscience no worry dem.		Some individuals may feel that since choices in these matters are personal, they should have the freedom to choose what they please as long as their conscience permits it.
Na something wey really touch me and I tell my pikin. "		It was a lesson that deeply impressed me and that I shared with my son. "
Na wetin make Paul write sey: ' But, now, na this three remain: faith, hope, love; but the one wey pass all of dem na love. ' - 1 Cor.		Thus, Paul could write: " Now, however, these three remain: faith, hope, love; but the greatest of these is love. " - 1 Cor.
ONE sister for south of Europe talk about how e life dey before. E say: " From when I dey small, I see how people de suffer. "		FROM an early age, I saw only injustice, " recalls a sister in southern Europe, who was reflecting on her past.
One brother talk wetin happen the time wey im and im wife just start missionary work. E sey: " We dey young that time, we never do missionary work before, and we still dey miss house.		In recounting the early days of his service as a missionary, a brother says: " We were young, inexperienced, and homesick.
One circuit overseer talk sey: " Sometimes, brothers dey give us letter to thank us because dem enjoy our visit.		Sometimes the brothers give us a thank - you letter saying how much they enjoyed our visit, " stated one circuit overseer.
Or you think sey e go be stress for you? One sister wey dey Bethel now, wey im name na Nadia, talk sey: ' When my two sister, my brother, and me pass twelve years, we want join congregation wey dey use the language of where we dey stay. '		When my siblings and I got into our teens, we wanted to switch to the local - language congregation, " says Nadia, who now serves at Bethel.
Other people translate this place as ' e pass anything wey we fit think. ' Or ' e pass anything wey fit dey human being mind. '		Some translators render this expression " surpasses all our dreams " or " excels all human planning. "
People wey come from another country, or people wey no too get, dey your congregation?		How can we show even greater consideration toward foreigners or disadvantaged ones in our congregation?
So, even though sey we no want comot for congregation wey dey use another language, make we do everything wey we fit do to serve well. - Matt.		So while keeping alive our desire to serve in a foreign - language field, we do well to safeguard our spiritual health. - Matt.
So, we no go begin judge any side, even if them de do wetin no correct. - Matt.		They do that instead of forming strong opinions about, or speaking out against, certain unjust practices. - Matt.
So we go talk about three question wey fit help us for this matter: How take dey look stranger?		So let us consider the following questions: How does view strangers?
So when this one happen, we go just talk small, or we go just say na mistake. Then we go the next door. But we go decide - am quick - quick.		We had to determine quickly if we should try to give a short Scriptural presentation or just acknowledge our mistake and move on.
Some papa and mama think sey e better make their pikin first go school like university, and get better work before e baptize.		Some parents have concluded that it would be best for their son or daughter to delay baptism in order first to obtain some advanced education and become secure in a career.
Takuya change, e stop the bad things wey e dey do and come even be regular pioneer. Today, e dey work for one of our branch office.		Takuya progressed to the point of becoming a regular pioneer and is now serving at a branch office.
Talk the Goodnews for Front of Government, Sept.		I Was Bitter and Violent ( A. De la Fuente ), No. 5
Tell am make e help you to fit talk with your brother well.		Ask him to help you to have an upbuilding conversation with your brother.
The strong faith wey you get dey make happy!		How pleased must be!
The talk help us see sey e no bad to change wetin person get for mind to do for God work. "		That point helped us to see that it is all right to change one 's theocratic goals. "
The work wey dem dey do for Bethel dey support the preaching work for Philippines.		As the work grew over the years, the Bethel facilities became too small.
This one don make many church leader get plenty money. - Rev.		In many cases, the leaders of Christendom have amassed great wealth. - Rev.
This one don make we and be tight friend. The person wey write Psalm 147 praise. Make we do like am.		Like the writer of Psalm 147, do you not have many good reasons to cry out " Praise Jah! "
This one go make your faith strong well well.		That knowledge can then become the firm foundation for genuine faith.
This one mean sey everything about na love.		Indeed, is the very essence of love.
This one na the first time wey dem dey see this name for things wey dem dig come out from ground.		This is the first time that archaeologists have found this name in an ancient inscription.
This website get special part for small small pikin, for family and for things wey dey happen around the world.		The site has special sections for children and for families as well as a section with news items.
We fit learn two things from am. ( 1 ) Elders need to control theirself so that dem no go use the power wey dem get anyhow.		First, overseers among God 's people need to be especially careful to exercise self - control so that they do not abuse their authority.
We still see sey the fine fine character wey holy spirit dey give us and to tell person wey we trust wetin dey our mind, fit help us make we no too worry. And our congregation meeting dey help us too.		We also considered the value of cultivating the fruitage of his spirit, sharing our feelings with a trusted confidant, and drawing strength from upbuilding Christian association.
We want make dem use their life take serve and make dem marry person wey get that kind plan.		We kept before them the goal of the full - time ministry and the wisdom of marrying only someone with a similar goal.
Wetin Adam and Eve do bring wahala!		Adam and Eve 's choice proved disastrous!
Wetin be some things wey dem don enjoy?		What are some of the blessings they received?
Wetin go help us know whether we really get love for Jesus Christ?		What will help us to examine the depth of our love for Christ?
Wetin make you decide say you no go tire to preach?		Why are you determined to " bear fruit with endurance "?
Wey dey show the magazine wey carry the topic		Indicating the issue in which each article appears
When Reuben do something wey bad well well, im papa come give Joseph the right as firstborn. ( Gen.		When Reuben became guilty of misconduct, the right of firstborn passed to Joseph.
When apostle Peter dey talk about baptism, e come talk about the ark wey Noah build. E sey: " E just be like baptism wey dey save una now. "		In discussing baptism, the apostle Peter referred to Noah 's constructing of the ark: " Baptism, which corresponds to this, is also now saving you. "
Which place for Bible talk about pope and cardinal? '		of popes and cardinals? '
Which work Jesus give apostle Peter, and wetin e do wey show sey e get mind?		What privileges did the apostle Peter enjoy, and how did he demonstrate courage?
Who go use direct Im people for our time?		Whom would use to work under Christ 's leadership and take the lead among His people?
Why e good to dey tell people word wey go make dem happy?		Show why encouragement is important.
You dey see as Papa and Friend wey love you and wey ready to help you when you get problem?		Do you see as a loving Father and Friend who will come to your aid when you are in distress?
You fit dey sure sey ' after you don do wetin God want, you go see as e go do wetin e don promise. ' ( Heb.		You can be certain that " after you have done the will of God, you [ will ] receive the fulfillment of the promise. "
You think sey e easy for Asa to comot im grandmama from im position? Asa really get mind!		Think how much courage Asa had to muster to stand up to Maacah, who was " queen mother " in the land!
You think sey this one go make Nehemiah tire, come let im hand weak?		Did Nehemiah allow that situation to cause him to drop his hands in discouragement too?
and " Which kind person I go marry? "		and " What kind of marriage mate do I want? "
Baptism. dey save una now. " - 1 PET.		Baptism. is also now saving you. " - 1 PET.
Carry this things give men wey you fit trust, wey go fit still teach other people. ' - 2 TIM.		These things entrust to faithful men, who, in turn, will be adequately qualified to teach others. " - 2 TIM.
Get You for Mind, ' June		Cares for You, " June
This one really show sey e get other things wey matter pass wetin we like. And we need to put this one for mind when we dey choose anything wey we want do.		That certainly helps us to see that there are far more important factors to consider than our own preferences when it comes to exercising personal freedom in all aspects of our life.
Later, Hannah come get belle, and e born Samuel.		In time, Hannah did become pregnant, and she gave birth to a son named Samuel.
no need to know everything wey go happen to us before e happen.		Fourth, does not have to foreknow everything that happens to us.
Sometimes, Paul dey travel go Jerusalem, na for there dem arrest am.		On occasion, Paul traveled to Jerusalem, and he was eventually taken into custody there.
But e good to do everything wey we fit do to follow wetin Bible talk about this matter.		But it is definitely worth our effort to put into practice what the Bible indicates about rendering honor.
For example, the husband fit no want make the wife study with the children, or carry dem go meeting.		For example, the husband of a Witness wife might not allow her to conduct a formal Bible study with her minor children or to take them with her to Christian meetings.
You remember the two pioneer wey we talk about? Na one elder come help dem see sey, dem no suppose let their quarrel cause problem for other people.		In the case of the two longtime pioneers, a kind elder helped them to reflect on such questions as these: ' Do the two of us have the right to make others sad because of our disagreement?
Bible talk sey make husband dey treat their wife with love.		The Bible requires that husbands exercise headship in a loving way.
Because the preaching work dey important, e suppose dey among the things wey dey our mind pass.		Because the preaching work is so urgent, it should be high on our list of priorities.
E good make you ask yourself question wey go help you know whether your faith strong reach to block Satan lie.		Test your defenses against satanic propaganda.
Sometimes, our problem dey be like high fence wey we no fit climb by ourself. Na only fit help us solve this kind problem.		There are some walls - some problems - that we cannot " scale " in our own strength; we need a boost from.
Who be " the caretaker of the farm, " " the vine, " and the different - different " branch "?		Who are represented by " the cultivator, " " the vine, " and " the branches "?
Na true sey we dey free to choose wetin we want do for school matter, and the kind work wey we want do. But e good make we remember sey our freedom get where e reach.		While it is true that we have the freedom to make personal choices regarding our education and career, we need to remember that our freedom is relative and that all decisions we make have consequences.
Satan want make dem feel sey God no want make dem enjoy theirself.		Satan made an issue of the fact that God 's human children were not allowed to eat " from every tree of the garden. "
Make we come talk about four things wey go comot when the Kingdom come.		So let us focus on what will be gone when God 's Kingdom comes.
Story About People Life - I Don Gain Because I Make Friend With Wise People		Life Story - I Have Benefited From Walking With Wise Ones
Better Story About Us Wey Don Happen		From Our Archives
After this one, the person fit baptize.		After doing so, that person could get baptized.
And dem dey preach the way Jesus and im disciple take preach.		What should be the scope of the preaching work?
And e fit come make angels and human being no trust again.		Above all, had God done nothing about the sin committed in Eden, his own trustworthiness would have been called into question.
And for im organization, spirit dey make im people get the different different better character wey im spirit dey give. ( Gal.		It is a place that abounds with the fruitage of God 's spirit.
And make we beg make e help us do wetin go make the one mind wey we get continue.		And let us ask to help us keep contributing to the unity of his people!
Apostle Paul talk for Bible sey put value for the part of body wey people think sey no dey do work. ( 1 Cor.		The apostle Paul wrote that surrounded the less honorable parts of the human body " with greater honor. "
Because of the love wey get, e make arrangement to save Jew people wey no happy for the bad things wey dey happen for Jerusalem.		lovingly made provision to save those Jews who did not agree with the detestable things happening in the city.
Bible dey tell everybody wey get better mind sey make dem beg make e forgive dem, ' because e dey forgive finish. ' ( Isa.		The Bible invites all sincere individuals to ask for his forgiveness, " for he will forgive in a large way. "
Bible even talk when this one go happen?		And does the Bible really indicate when the resurrection will take place?
Brothers and sisters wey dey use their life do work need person wey go tell dem better word.		Those who live a life of self - sacrifice should be commended.
But, wetin dey that verse fit still help you.		But in principle it may be the course you need to follow.
But dem no ready. That time the Bible Students come know sey dem no suppose get anything to do with fake religion. - Read 2 Corinthians 6: 14.		The Bible Students would have to face the facts: There could be no partnership with those determined to hold on to false religion. - Read 2 Corinthians 6: 14.
But make we get am for mind sey, if we do wetin we suppose do; dey put God matter as the first thing for our life, no go ever let good thing pass us.		Instead, we can be ever confident that if we do what we are supposed to do - give spiritual interests priority in our life - will not hold back what is good from us.
But now, na another thing come dey make dem happy.		But now the traffic signals were old news.
Dem go do wetin Bible talk to show sey dem trust. And dem know sey na that one go make protect dem forever. - Ps.		They know that true and lasting security comes to those who demonstrate trust in God by living in harmony with Bible principles. - Ps.
Dem know sey the kind character wey God like better pass anything wey person fit gain.		They realize that godly qualities are more important than any riches or advantages.
Dem marry women and the women born children wey wicked well well. ( Gen.		Wicked angels materialized as humans, took wives, and produced brutal, hybrid offspring.
Dem surprise, dem come start to dey cry sey dem want do family study.		They were shocked and started to cry and said that they wanted to study.
E fit be sey want make 12 apostle form the ' 12 foundation stone ' for New Jerusalem. ( Rev.		Evidently, purposed to have 12 apostles form the future " 12 foundation stones " of New Jerusalem.
E get one evening wey my wife just dey miss house well well. I do wetin I fit do to help am, but e no work.		One evening my wife was particularly homesick, and my efforts to help were not working.
E get one time wey somebody ask the Bible Student why dem still dey preach even though sey dem threaten dem well well.		Most, though, had done their best to persevere in the face of official suppression.
E get small small things wey you fit do if e dey hard you to talk with people wey you no sabi before.		If you are overwhelmed by the thought of meeting new people, you can start in small ways.
E good make we know the things wey Bible talk sey go happen for our time and how e take dey happen. E go help us ready for wetin go happen for front. ( Rev.		We must be aware of time and events so that we can be ready for what is coming.
E like to preach to people wey dey speak Russian language for there.		She had a deep desire to preach to Russian - speaking immigrants.
E no start to carry body up or dey overdo, even after the king select am as im queen. - Esther 2: 9, 12, 15, 17.		She did not become vain or immodest even after the king selected her to be his queen. - Esther 2: 9, 12, 15, 17.
E no tey, Tessie start to go congregation meeting and dey behave like Christian - even though sey im friends dey laugh am.		Shortly thereafter, Tessie started attending Christian meetings and displaying a Christian personality - even in the face of ridicule from her associates.
E no tey their enemy come dey worry dem.		Then the opposition came - hard and fast.
E still dey read and dey take time think about the place for Bible wey we dey read for Memorial time. This brother talk sey this one dey make am learn new things every year.		This elder has found that by rereading these articles and by reading and meditating on the Memorial Bible reading, he learns new things each year.
E still go the market again, e stay the market the whole day, dey find more people because e need more people. No matter sey afternoon don finish wey e hire dem, e sey e go pay dem better money.		The owner needed more workers, however, and returned to the marketplace throughout the day to hire more and more men, offering a fair wage even to those whom he hired at the end of the afternoon.
E still talk about how God people go take get one mind for the last days.		That message also foretells the unification of God 's people that started to take place during the last days.
E take time tell me somethings wey I still need to learn. E tell me things wey good circuit overseer need.		He kindly showed me a few areas in which I could improve, mentioning skills that a good circuit overseer needs.
Estonia dey under USSR that time. Na there my wife born. E no die as those doctor talk.		In Tallinn, contrary to the doctors ' prediction, Maria gave birth to a healthy son, Vitaly.
Even though sey we be Catholic, my grandpapa get open mind about religion and e dey collect book about religion wey im friends dey give am.		Although we were Catholic, Grandfather was open - minded about religion and collected religious literature that his friends gave him.
FOR September 1922, people do one convention for where dem dey call Cedar Point, Ohio, wey dey U.S.A.		THE temperature had already started to climb that Friday morning in September 1922 as 8,000 people crowded into the auditorium.
For example, e get one time wey e go beg Syria king to help am fight instead of.		Still, God 's overall assessment was that Asa 's heart " was complete with all his life. "
For example, what if your family people no want make you dey go meeting or assembly, you go pray make help you know wetin to do?		You ask to direct you and help you discern the best way to handle the situation.
For example, when dem want do the first international assembly for Puerto Rico for 1967, the work wey dem give me reach me for neck.		For example, during Puerto Rico 's first international assembly in 1967, I felt overwhelmed by the responsibility.
For the last day of the convention, one brother put something inside Riana coat pocket. Wetin e put?		On the last day of the convention, a brother slipped something into Riana 's coat pocket.
For where! Even if e hide for where nobody go see am, go still see am and e go punish am. ( Heb.		Even if a person is able to conceal thievery from authorities, employers, elders, or parents, he cannot hide it from God, who guarantees that every theft will be exposed.
How we fit copy and Jesus when we dey correct person?		When giving discipline, how can we imitate and his Son?
How we fit use our freedom show how we love reach?		How does the way we use our freedom of choice reveal the depth of our love for?
How we go take show sey we dey do things as Bible talk?		How can we be organized in harmony with God 's own Book?
How we take dey gain, if we get open hand?		What are some blessings we receive when we give generously?
How you fit talk wetin go touch people mind when una dey talk about Bible and how God take make things?		How can you be effective when you reason with others about creation and the Bible?
I learn sey na God wey no dey fail im people.		I also came to know as a God who gives his servants unfailing support.
If we dey think about the good things wey don do for us, and we value am, e go help us get joy even when we dey face serious wahala.		Whenever we experience great difficulties, we will remain joyful if we meditate appreciatively on what has done for us.
If you ask person wey be soldier, e go talk sey Asa and im army no go ever fit win Ethiopia soldier. But ' e no get wetin God no fit do. '		From a military point of view, it would seem impossible to overcome the Ethiopians, yet " with God all things are possible. "
answer im prayer. E help am win Ethiopia people. ( 2 Chron.		In answer to Asa 's heartfelt prayer, God gave Asa a complete victory, annihilating the Ethiopian army.
Junia wey we talk about before, talk sey: " I dey happy when person send me short message.		Receiving a short encouraging message or an invitation to spend time with a fellow Christian helps me more than I can say, " says Junia.
Know your pikin well. Know how e dey think, how e dey feel, and the things wey dey worry am for mind.		Get to know your children well - their thinking, their feelings, their concerns.
Later, around 7: 30 for evening, one girl come knock our door.		Then, about 7: 30 p.m., we heard a knock on the door.
Many people for my family really support me for this work. Bible talk sey: ' Person wey dey waka with who get sense, go get sense. ' I happy sey my family dey among this people wey get sense. ( Prov.		The Bible says: " The one walking with the wise will become wise, " and there were many wise ones in my family who supported my decision to pioneer.
Me and my wife Janet for one island wey dey Philippines		With Janet on one of the many islands in the Philippines
Michael papa and mama tell the two of dem sey: " You think sey dem go let us comot from here? "		Do you think they are just going to let us walk off? " his parents asked.
My three children and their wife.		My sons and their wives.
Na 50 people come the meeting. E surprise me to see how small children take dey answer question for deep Bible topic.		I was impressed that even the young children who were among the 50 present commented on deep Bible subjects.
Na because e really like the preaching work.		His heart was in the preaching work.
Na there they go make Rehoboam king. ( 2 Chron.		Then Rehoboam traveled north from Jerusalem to Shechem to be anointed as king.
Na this one make Maria mama dey ask imself those question wey we talk about for the beginning of this topic.		Maria 's mother had such thoughts in mind when she asked the questions mentioned in the introduction.
No let anything make you fear because your God dey with you, anywhere wey you go. " ( Josh.		Do not be struck with terror or fear, for your God is with you wherever you go. "
Number three reason why we de preach na to warn people about the thing wey go do.		We have a further reason to continue our preaching work. We preach to give a warning.
One brother wey get two children talk sey: " Many papa and mama dey use everything wey dem get take support their children for things like sports and school matter.		A brother who has two children wrote: " Many parents expend much effort and resources helping their children reach goals in such areas as sports, recreation, and education.
One doctor wey don drink come dey curse my papa because as e be Christian e no gree join people go fight war. E talk sey my papa too dey fear, and sey e dey dodge make dem no carry am go fight war.		An intoxicated doctor came by and verbally abused Father because of his Christian neutrality, saying that he was a coward and a draft dodger.
Paul really want make some Jew people get life. ( Rom.		It was his heart 's desire that some Jews would find salvation.
Paul talk say Bible dey like sword wey God give us.		Paul likens God 's Word to a sword that has given us.
People wey be God friend go enjoy the better things wey this earth go produce.		s earthly family will enjoy the best that the earth has to offer.
Person wey get sense, when e don know something and understand am, e go come use am well.		A person who has wisdom is able to combine knowledge with understanding and put them to work in a practical way.
Pharisee people see them as " people wey curse dey for their head. "		The Pharisees classed them as among the " accursed people. "
So e dodge go meet Jesus for night. Jesus no drive am. Jesus dey always use im time talk to people about God.		Jesus was flexible and generous with his time; he met with Nicodemus at night - away from the crowds.
Solomon get strong mind, and e do things wey help am finish the work wey give am. E good make young people follow the better advice wey their papa and mama dey give dem.		Though Christian youths can and should receive guidance from their parents, youths themselves have important decisions to make.
Some of dem, like Larry Androsoff, Norman Dittrick, and Emil Schneider come be Witness, and dem still dey serve till today.		Such fellow students as Larry Androsoff, Norman Dittrick, and Emil Schneider eventually accepted the truth, and they are serving loyally to this day.
THEM de call the books rainbow set.		THOSE books were called the rainbow set.
That one go make us fit choose the kind thing wey go make bless us.		As a result, we will be in a better position to make personal decisions that our loving God will bless.
The brothers wey dey speak Greek come dey complain sey dem no dey treat their sisters wey their husband don die well.		Greek - speaking Jews complained that their widows were not being treated fairly.
The sister tell me say, " Make you go school go learn plenty things so that you go come back come teach us! "		She said, " Go to school and learn as much as you can, and come back and teach us! "
The things wey dem write for God Law about wetin go happen to Messiah, dey among the last things wey e talk before e die.		Even his final words before he died included quotations of Messianic prophecies.
The truth be sey, my mind no go settle if e agree with wetin we tell am, and e no ask question. "		Frankly, I would worry if she accepted something without asking questions. "
The woman come sofri sofri pass inside the plenty people wey dey Jesus back, come touch im cloth for down.		The woman quietly made her way through the crowd, approached Jesus from behind, and touched the fringe of his outer garment.
This one fit make am happy again. Paul talk sey make we continue to dey use song tell each other better word.		Paul shows that singing a Kingdom song together can be a source of encouragement.
This pikin go be ' own. ' ( Judg.		She would be the one who would " become 's. "
To fit help the Bible Student dem, the branch office for Germany come get legal department for Bethel wey dey Magdeburg.		To assist them, the branch office in Germany formed a legal department at Bethel in Magdeburg.
Try mek you learn all this verse and mek you remember dem, because e go help you if you no dey with Bible.		Try to learn these verses and remember them, because they will help you if ever you do not have a Bible with you.
We dey do everything wey we fit do to go preach to dem.		These people like to talk about God.
We go learn how dey look sin, the person wey sin, and the person wey repent.		So from the arrangement of the cities of refuge, we learn 's view of sin, sinners, and repentance.
We happy sey because of favor, e dey let people wey come from everywhere hear the good news about im Kingdom.		We rejoice that in his undeserved kindness has allowed people from all backgrounds to hear the good news.
We understand sey dem be the army wey dey heaven wey join scatter Jerusalem reach ground and for Armageddon dem go still join hand finish this wicked world wey Satan dey control.		We understand them to picture heavenly forces that were involved in the destruction of Jerusalem and that will be involved in bringing destruction at Armageddon.
Wetin Daniel do show sey e really get mind, and e stand well for God side. Na this one make save am when dem throw am put for where lion dey.		blessed Daniel 's conscientious and courageous decision by miraculously sparing him a cruel death.
Wetin papa and mama need to dey sure of before their pikin baptize?		What do Christian parents want to be sure of before their children get baptized?
Wetin papa and mama suppose do if their pikin no come too believe wetin Bible talk after e don baptize?		What should parents consider if a child who is already baptized begins to waver in faith?
Wetin we go learn for this topic?		What will we consider in this article?
When apostle Peter dey write, e talk wetin dey Isaiah 40: 8.		The apostle Peter quoted Isaiah 40: 8.
When you get problem, think am for your mind sey this thing dey happen: Satan and im demons stand for one side.		When you are suffering during a trial, try to imagine this invisible scene. Satan and the demons are on one side.
Which hope Job get?		What hope did the patriarch Job express?
Which warning apostle John give us?		What warning did the apostle John give?
Why e good to show sey we support as King now?		Why show support for 's sovereignty now?
Yes! Example of many people for Bible and example of our brothers and sisters for congregation, show sey we fit.		Faithful ones before us and modest ones today have proved that it can be done.
You for control your temper?		Would you have tried to display a mild temper?
You think sey e go better for dem if God no rule dem? What of you?		Would they be better off without God 's rulership?
Young People, Make Una Do Wetin Go Make Una Faith Strong, Sept.		Young Ones - Are You Ready to Get Baptized?
Your answer show everybody sey you don give your life and you come baptize as Witness.		Your affirmative answers served as a public declaration of your unreserved dedication and showed that you were qualified for baptism as an ordained minister of.
Faith na to believe sey the thing wey person dey wait for don happen, even though sey e never see am. ' - HEB.		Faith is. the evident demonstration of realities that are not seen. " - HEB.
Wetin dey make me happy pass na, when I hear sey my children dey follow the truth. ' - 3 JOHN 4.		No greater joy do I have than this: that I should hear that my children go on walking in the truth. " - 3 JOHN 4.
[CONTENT_REMOVED]		See paragraphs 11 - 16 )
You get strong mind sey go bless you if you continue to serve am well?		Do you have full confidence that will bless you if you continue to serve him faithfully?
tell the man sey: ' Waka for inside the whole town, put mark for the front of people head wey no happy and wey dey complain about the bad things wey dey happen for the town. '		This man was told: " Go through the city,. and put a mark on the foreheads of the men who are sighing and groaning over all the detestable things that are being done in the city. "
Na that time wetin we read go enter our mind and make us do wetin we learn.		Only then will we be able to make the best personal application of its timeless wisdom.
So our life make sense, and we know wetin God get for mind for us.		Hence, we have real meaning and direction in our lives.
Col. 3: 9, 10 ) So, dey use wetin we dey learn from im organization dey mold us today.		Therefore, the environment in which is now molding us is viewed as a spiritual paradise that is presently taking shape.
God don give us sense and power to think. Abeg, make we use am think well so that our faith go strong. - Prov.		Use your God - given thinking abilities and power of reason to make the truth your own. - Prov.
If we talk when we still dey vex, we fit come talk wetin we go later regret.		If we speak in the heat of the moment, we may blurt out words that we will later regret.
Think about the better better character wey preaching don help you get.		Think of good qualities that you have cultivated in the ministry.
Even if many years pass before e born Isaac, Abraham no tire to wait. This one make come bless am. - Gen.		Although he waited years for Isaac 's birth, Abraham did not lose heart, and did not disappoint him. - Gen.
Mouth no go fit talk how we go happy reach if we dey use all our heart serve, and dey teach other people about am.		When we focus first on serving and teaching others his Word, we experience incomparable joy.
Aaron dey Bethel now, and na elder.		Aaron now serves at Bethel and is an elder.
After four months, dem make me special pioneer for Austria.		Four months later, I was invited to serve as a special pioneer in Austria.
Among the people wey Irene study with, fifteen people baptize.		Fifteen of those with whom Irene studied got baptized.
And make nobody deceive una with wetin no get head wey come from the world. ' - COL.		Look out that no one takes you captive by means of the philosophy and empty deception. of the world. " - COL.
And we no go be like Rehoboam. Instead, we go de worship as e want. - Jude 20, 21.		Unlike Rehoboam, we will remain steadfast in true worship. - Jude 20, 21.
Another time, Jesus talk to Nathanael like sey dem be friend before, even if Nathanael no like people wey come from Nazareth.		On another occasion, Jesus spoke in a friendly way to Nathanael, who had a negative view of people from Nazareth.
As e be sey dem no know wetin Jesus sey make we dey preach, dem no fit know why dem suppose preach.		Since they have lost sight of the message they are supposed to preach, is it any wonder that they have also lost sight of what should be the motive for doing this work?
As the man see the brother, e just waka comot, e no even use the toilet again.		he asked me.
As we dey do all this things, e don make us better people, we no dey carry sickness because of bad life and e dey add join wetin dey make our family happy.		Obeying them has increased our self - respect, contributed to good health, and enhanced family happiness.
Ask yourself sey: ' I really dey show sey I no dey carry wetin person do me for mind?		Ask yourself: ' Do I give clear evidence of being one who does not hold grudges?
Because we get sin from Adam, to do bad dey always dey our mind.		Being imperfect descendants of Adam, we are inclined to err, to do what is bad, to sin.
Bible talk sey for last days people go love only theirself, and na this one be the first bad character wey Paul mention. Some people wey dey study Bible matter talk sey, Paul first mention this bad character because na im dey make person get the other ones wey e later talk about.		Bible scholars suggest that love of self is put at the top of the apostle Paul 's list of negative qualities that would be prevalent during the last days because the other qualities result from it.
But, as Jehoshaphat almost die because e make friend with Ahab, na so we fit still enter trouble if we make friend with people wey no dey serve.		Similarly, our having unnecessary association with those who do not serve involves risks.
But Paul no preach just because e no want make people blood dey im head, or because want make e preach.		Still, neither guilt nor duty moved Paul to preach.
But im mind come dey worry am sey no get " house, " or temple. This one make am want build temple for.		Dismayed that there was no " house, " or temple, dedicated to, he wanted to build one.
But make young people no feel sey dem must do the work the way dem meet am. And e still good make dem no quick talk sey the advice of this our old brothers no go work.		Though younger ones should not feel shackled to past ways of doing things, they should not be quick to dismiss the counsel of older ones.
But na so e really be? Na true sey e get many better things wey person fit do if e dey free. But how you think sey the world for be if dem dey allow people do anything wey dem like?		True, freedom does bring many benefits; yet, we shudder to imagine what the world would be like if there were no restraints at all.
But na you go do wetin go make you and continue to be friend. And make you no stop to dey do things wey go save you.		But maintaining that friendship and working out your own salvation will require effort.
But we still need to do everything wey we fit do to help ourself.		Still, we do need to put forth effort.
But what of the ones wey no gree repent till great tribulation start?		But what of those individuals who refuse to change, who continue to support this system right up to the time of the great tribulation?
Dem dey do meeting for brothers house. The house no big or fine reach the temple.		Even though they often met in private homes, the modest surroundings for worship did not diminish their zeal for singing to.
Dem dey listen to us and dey tell us better word wey go help us. Dem still dey use Bible advice us.		They will listen to us and then try to build us up with warm encouragement and appropriate Scriptural counsel.
Dem do this convention for big big stadium for 14 city wey dey different part of the world.		Those who attended were thrilled to be present.
E go bless us for anything wey we fit do for am because of the faith and love wey we get, even if wetin we do no reach anything for our eye. - Mark 12: 41 - 44.		He rewards every expression of sacred service that springs from a heart motivated by faith and love, no matter how insignificant it might seem to the giver of the sacrifice. - Mark 12: 41 - 44.
E sabi the kind person wey God be from the way God treat am and im family.		And Abraham gained experience from the way God dealt with him and his family.
E sleep with Bath - sheba, another man wife.		He committed adultery with Bath - sheba.
E still talk sey: ' Write this thing wey I dey tell you because wetin I talk na true, and you fit trust am. '		He also says: " Write, for these words are faithful and true. "
E talk sey: " E pain me as I take pursue the two people wey dey preach God Word. "		I am a fool to stand before two people spreading God 's Word and attempt to steer them away like that. "
E talk sey: " My friends wey go preach for where pioneers no too dey, tell me wetin dem enjoy.		WHEN I listened to the experiences of my friends who served in areas where there was a great need for pioneers, I longed to taste that joy too, " says Sylviana, a pioneer in her mid - 20 ' s.
E talk sey: ' I beg to help me love the people for where I go preach.		I asked to help me love the people in my assignment.
Even the time wey Jesus dey this world, dem still dey end their marriage ' because of anything wey their wife do. ' ( Matt.		Jewish men were still treacherously divorcing their wives " on every sort of grounds " when Jesus was on earth.
For Israel people time, person wey dey mold things fit force clay enter container to get the shape wey e want.		In Bible times, a potter might press the clay into a mold so that it would take on the shape he desired.
For example, for the Law wey God give Moses, e get some ' women wey dem arrange to work for front of the tent of meeting. ' ( Ex.		Under the Mosaic Law, for example, there were " women who were organized to serve at the entrance of the tent of meeting. "
For example, some people fit think sey marriage na only enjoyment.		Unrealistic expectations may be at the root of a marital problem.
For example, when Adam and Eve dey garden of Eden, give dem pass wetin dem need. Dem no pay money.		provided abundantly for Adam and Eve 's needs in Eden.
For example, when dem dey build our headquarter for Warwick, wey dey New York, na about 27,000 brothers and sisters join hand do the work.		For example, when world headquarters was being built at Warwick, New York, some 27,000 brothers and sisters offered their services - anywhere from two weeks to a year or longer.
For the beach wey dey Las Terrenas, one special pioneer dey use Bible preach to one man wey come pluck coconut		On the beach at Las Terrenas, a special pioneer uses the Bible to share the good news with a man who has harvested coconuts
How? Make you still dey respect am.		Set the example by honoring your mate.
How dem take know well, and wetin make dem no gree leave even when things hard?		How did they come to know so well that nothing could break their integrity?
How simple life fit help us do more for work?		How may a simple life make it easier to serve God?
How you go take teach your children about if your husband or wife no dey serve?		How can Christian parents teach their children Bible truth in a religiously divided household?
Husband and wife need to do wetin go make peace dey their marriage.		Peace is especially vital in a marriage.
I de ride the bicycle and sometimes I de push - am. Just about six months, I get 17 Bible study and some of them come baptize.		Within six months, I had 17 Bible studies, and some of the students came into the truth.
I de still remember how they sit - down with me, de look me for eye, and talk with me like their friend. Na the thing wey I really need that time.		I fondly remember how they sat with me, coming down to my eye level, and talked with me as genuine friends, which I so needed at the time.
I happy sey all the things wey I do to understand dem no be waste.		I also worked harder on being more loving and reasonable toward them.
I no want drag with am, but the thing pain me and e dey my mind for some time because the matter no be as e reason am.		I didn 't want to argue with him, but I felt misjudged and upset for quite a while.
I remember sey wahala for work dey always make me squeeze face come house.		Yet, for years, I would come home frustrated because of problems at work.
If we value God Kingdom, wetin we go do?		If we treasure God 's Kingdom in our heart, what will we be motivated to do?
If you be elder, which ministerial servant you don help to sabi give talk?		As an elder, could you listen as a ministerial servant practices a talk?
Instead, we go use dem dey do fine fine things. Na better wood, stone, and other things wey dem take dey build house we go dey use.		High - quality materials of wood, stone, and metal will be freely available to build beautiful homes.
Israel people don be slave for Assyrian people hand tey tey before Ezekiel write about the two stick. Na for the year 740 before Jesus time dem carry dem as slave. ( 2 Ki.		By the time Ezekiel recorded the prophecy about the two sticks, the northern kingdom of Israel had long since been taken captive by the Assyrians in 740 B.C.E.
Jesus gree with wetin talk, when e sey: ' Man go leave im papa and mama and e go dey with im wife, and two of dem go be one flesh. '		Jesus confirmed that it was who stated: " A man will leave his father and his mother and will stick to his wife, and the two will be one flesh. "
Jesus na King and High Priest. Na im dey control or direct angels.		Acting as both King and High Priest, Jesus is the leader of 's heavenly army.
Jesus talk sey we go be like person wey dey ' keep better things for store, ' old things and new things.		Over time, we develop what Jesus described as a " treasure store " of old and new truths.
Joshua, wey dey help Moses, want stop dem.		Joshua, Moses ' assistant, wanted to restrain them.
Make I tell una my story.		Let me tell you my story.
Make we talk about wetin happen to Brother Willi Diehl.		Consider the experience of Willi Diehl.
Many brothers never learn how to use only Bible preach.		They had not yet learned to preach using the Bible alone, and they had been counting on The Finished Mystery to " do the talking " for them.
Many of dem for the whole world dey remember us for their prayer. "		Many brothers and sisters all over the world are praying for us. "
Many of our brothers and sisters wey dey congregation don old.		Also, many of our older ones sacrifice spending time with their children or grandchildren.
My grand mama still study many people, one of dem na Gertrude Steele. Gertrude Steele serve as missionary for many years for Puerto Rico.		Emma taught such truths to many individuals, including Gertrude Steele, who for years served as a missionary in Puerto Rico.
My husband no well. So when dem sey make we go, I just dey think about im body.		The news came at a time when I was beginning to be concerned about Arthur 's health.
My pikin Nicholas with im wife, Deborah, dey work for London branch office		My son Nicholas and his wife, Deborah, serve at London Bethel
Na im be sey papa and mama go show their pikin how to know better cloth and where to buy am!		How good it is when parents teach their youngsters where and how to find suitable clothes!
Na only get the sense to fit take care of heaven and earth. This one na another thing wey make be the Person wey suppose rule us.		Moreover, is the rightful Sovereign because he has the knowledge and wisdom needed to care for the universe.
Na so e still be that day wey one Witness first preach to you.		Similarly, on a memorable day some time ago, one of 's servants may have called at your door to discuss the message of hope found in the Bible.
Na when we dey help other people see wetin God talk we go really dey happy ( Check paragraph 12, 13 )		Lasting joy comes from helping people to benefit from God 's wisdom ( See paragraphs 12, 13 )
Other better better things still dey for the three letter wey John write.		John 's three letters contain further gems of truth.
People wey study science dey try to copy all this fine fine things wey God make.		Scientists often strive to imitate those wonderful designs.
Person wey too like imself go dey think sey e better pass other people.		People who love themselves excessively think more of themselves than it is necessary for them to think.
Romans 15: 5 still talk sey make we get the mind wey Jesus get.		And Romans 15: 5 refers to having " the same mental attitude that Christ Jesus had. "
Satan de try to use different - different things attack us like, when government stop our work, when schoolmate de give us trouble, and when our family make things hard us ( Check paragraph 14 )		Satan tries to bully us with governmental bans, pressure from classmates, and opposition from family ( See paragraph 14 )
Small pikin dey like learn, and dem dey bring theirself down.		Most young children are eager to learn, and they tend to be humble.
So make we use the time wey we take dey wait, to get the kind character wey go make fit use us for congregation more. How we fit do am?		Instead, it is wise to use our time to improve our spiritual qualifications.
Sofri talk with dem.		Speak with mildness.
Some of dem want enter full - time service, or dem want pack go do work for area wey need more publishers.		Many give answers that reveal that they have a clear vision of what they want to do to serve - perhaps by entering some form of full - time service or by serving where there is a greater need for Kingdom proclaimers.
The brother dey ask dem about wetin dem plan to do for.		Many candidates are youths.
The man body strong; e no be like person wey sickness want kill.		The man seems relatively healthy; no physical problem is about to rob him of his life.
The truth be sey some of dem wey dey live big man life before, go need to live simple life now.		Of course, if they have tasted some of life 's luxuries over the years, they may need to simplify their life and be satisfied with less materially.
This advice dey help dem no matter where dem come from, their culture or the kind weather wey dey there.		That is so no matter where they live, what their culture is, or what the climate is.
This one really serious.		Lene and I were physically and emotionally exhausted.
This two topic show sey dey always encourage people wey dey serve am. E still show sey, from Bible time come reach now, servant dey follow im example.		These articles show that has always encouraged his servants and that they have followed his example throughout the ages.
To dey treat visitor well, na wetin dem take know God people. Na im make John praise Gaius for wetin e do. - Gen.		John considered this to be proof of Gaius ' faithfulness, since showing hospitality has always distinguished God 's servants. - Gen.
We dey show how we love reach when we try do everything wey we fit do to do wetin e want.		By choosing to do God 's will and by working hard to do so, we show our depth of love for and our desire to please him.
We fit tell dem sey make dem follow us go visit brother or sister wey no well or wey don old.		Mature can invite new ones to come along when visiting the sick and the elderly.
We go fit be good people for God eye.		Being brought to righteousness.
We hear sey police dey come search our brothers house everyday.		We learned that the police were making daily raids on the homes of our brothers.
We pray sey make God and Jesus Christ our Lord make una mind come down. Make dem still make una strong for every good thing wey una do and talk. ' - 2 Thess.		May our Lord Jesus Christ himself and God our Father, who loved us and gave everlasting comfort and good hope by means of undeserved kindness, comfort your hearts and make you firm. " - 2 Thess.
We want use small time take preach to many people.		The aim of the special preaching campaign was to reach as many people as possible in a short time.
Wetin David do about wetin talk?		How did David react to 's direction?
Wetin go do about the bad things wey people dey do today?		What will do about wrong activities?
Wetin be some of the things wey person dey do when e dey do Bible study?		What does personal study include, and why is it important?
Wetin fit happen if we begin carry shoulder up?		What could happen if we failed to guard against pride?
Wetin go show sey we dey do wetin we promise ' everyday '?		How can we live up to our dedication to God " day after day "?
Wetin my papa talk come still dey ring for my ear, but I still choose to comot for house.		That was my first experience in leaving things behind to follow the Master.
Wetin we fit gain from this one?		With what result?
Wetin we fit learn from the example of Mary?		What can we learn from the example of Mary?
Wetin we fit learn from the way dey use im freedom?		What example does set in the use of his freedom?
Wetin we learn from the way dey take care of bird?		What do we learn from the way cares for the birds of heaven?
What if we dey shame or fear or e dey hard us to tell dem wetin we believe? Or what if, as we dey talk, we come dey shake?		What if we are shy or timid or have a hard time speaking up about our faith, or what if we cringe when we do speak up?
When King David dey prepare things down for the temple, e arrange 4,000 Levite wey go dey use music praise.		For example, in preparation for service at the temple, King David organized 4,000 Levites to provide music of praise.
When papa and mama know the truth wey dey Bible, how e fit help dem teach their pikin?		When parents inculcate Bible truth in their own heart, how does this help them as teachers?
When some people come ask am question about wetin e dey teach, e no use im own sense or wetin e don see for life, answer dem.		When confronted with religious controversies, he appealed neither to his vast wisdom nor to his unparalleled experience.
When we do wetin talk, e go bless us. - Deut.		Obedience to God leads to his favor and blessing. - Deut.
Who We Go Respect and Praise?		Treasure Your Gift of Free Will, Jan.
Why we no believe sey pope take over from Peter?		Why should the pope not be considered Peter 's successor?
With respect I tell the woman say, I go like to see the Ambassador.		I politely told her that I wished to see the High Commissioner.
You fit still use our publication wey talk about am.		You might also use a suitable publication.
If you baptize, I go leave you!		If you get baptized, I will leave you!
God use angel wey appear to am for the bush wey get chukuchuku, take send am to rule and save. '		God sent Moses " as both ruler and deliverer by means of the angel who appeared to him in the thornbush. "
One sister wey me and am dey always preach together, just stop to dey follow me go preaching.		A sister with whom I often preached suddenly ended our arrangements for the ministry.
E be like sey na so some people for the congregation wey dey Rome still be.		That was likely also true of some in the Roman congregation.
[CONTENT_REMOVED]		See paragraphs 9 - 12 )
But how that one go take happen if dem use Isaac do sacrifice?		But how could that occur if Abraham put Isaac to death as a sacrifice?
Every year, na different different Governing Body member dey do chairman for the meeting. And na so because dem no get oga. ( 1 Pet.		Each year, they rotate chairmanship at those meetings, since no member of the Governing Body is considered to be more important than the other members.
Proverbs 2: 7, 9 still talk sey " dey give better sense to people wey dey do wetin good. "		A similar thought is expressed at Proverbs 2: 7, 9, which says that " treasures up practical wisdom for the upright. "
Na im make dem no quick comot hand from war matter.		Therefore, as a group, they were not always neutral with regard to the war effort.
Today, which gift de give us power to continue to preach?		What gifts strengthen us today?
Jesus never stop to clean God people, and e dey make sure sey dem continue to serve God as e want. - Mal.		Jesus has also been busy refining God 's people and helping them to render worship that is clean. - Mal.
Help Your Pikin Make E Get Faith		Parents, Help Your Children Build Faith
Ps. 55: 22; 68: 19 ) For 2018, that one go always dey our mind everytime wey we go Kingdom Hall.		During 2018, we will be reminded of this important truth every time we attend a meeting at the Kingdom Hall.
So dey beg to help you dey patient, as you dey bear wahala.		Plead with to help you to endure patiently.
How Israel people example show wetin fit happen if person no get faith again?		How did the ancient Israelites demonstrate the hardening effect of a lack of faith?
Which lie Satan talk about?		What accusation did Satan hurl against?
E get one time wey Hezekiah come dey carry shoulder up.		For a brief period, Hezekiah 's " heart became haughty. "
After, I go Karachi again and I work with Brother Henry Finch and Harry Forrest.		Later, I returned to Karachi and served with Henry Finch and Harry Forrest, newly arrived missionaries from Gilead School.
All the Bible chapter and verse wey we use for this magazine, na from inside New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures we carry am.		Unless otherwise indicated, Scripture quotations are from the modern - language New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures.
All this question na serious question wey we suppose sitdown think about.		These are serious questions to ponder at this time of the year.
And na wetin dey do be that! - 2 Tim.		And he does! - 2 Tim.
Another person wey we go talk about na Mary.		Now consider another example, that of Mary.
Apostle Paul write sey: ' And mek we dey think about how we go take help ourself. '		The apostle Paul wrote: " Let us be concerned about one another. "
As bird small reach, e dey chop plenty fruit, seed, insect, or worm.		As small as those creatures are, they eat a lot of fruit, seeds, insects, or worms.
As dem dey kill dem for wetin dem no do, how you think sey people wey hate partial go feel?		A sick feeling overwhelms lovers of justice as they witness the execution of that innocent man and his sons.
Beg mek e help you comot am for your mind.		Ask to help you reject the wrong thoughts.
But, ' na any name wey the man call the animals, na im come be their name. ' - Gen.		Rather, " whatever the man would call each living creature, that became its name. " - Gen.
But, Martha fit don hear about this miracle. E still get one time wey Jesus bring Jairus pikin come life.		And it is similar with Jesus ' bringing Jairus ' daughter back to life.
But, whether we win or we no win, e dey make God happy to see sey we get strong mind to talk about am.		But whatever the outcome of such cases, the courage God 's servants display under trial makes God rejoice.
But God change the bad thing to good thing. E do am to save many people life, as e dey do now. ' ( Gen.		Although you meant to harm me, God intended it to turn out well and to preserve many people alive, as he is doing today. "
But I know sey something dey miss for my life. "		But something was missing. "
But before papa and mama think about wetin go favor dem, make dem first think about wetin go favor their children. - w17.05, pp.		Christian parents put their children 's spiritual well - being ahead of personal preferences. - w17.05, pp.
But dem still see one room sleep for their house wey don scatter. Cold catch dem for night no be small.		They spent the dark, cold night in a room on the second floor of their battered home.
But e tell am sey na only if e gree make e do part - time work and if e give am free time to fit do God work, na im e go work for am.		She replied that she would accept only part - time work and only if she was granted time off for her spiritual activities.
But if dem be people wey dey carry body down, e go help dem. Dem no go stop to serve and dem go still get the mind sey no go ever do partial.		If so, humility would have protected them, prompting them to continue faithful in their worship of, confident that their God is incapable of injustice.
But we go dey try make we no do the bad things wey we don stop. - Prov.		Even then, we will need to remain on guard against succumbing to our particular weaknesses. - Prov.
Dem come write this thing put for letter, and send some brothers to go give the congregation dem.		Representatives of the governing body were sent out to the congregations to deliver the letter.
Dem no dey try at all to do wetin God want.		As a result, the majority of them do what feels right in their own eyes and make no effort to live up to God 's standards.
E bring peace come your area. '		He brings peace to your territory. "
E do wetin like all the 13 years wey e take suffer. ( Gen.		Throughout his 13 - year ordeal, Joseph demonstrated that he had 's view of matters.
E even get one time when my mama dey study im student together because their house no far from each other.		I accompanied her in field service during my school vacations.
E fit be sey, we dey work with dem for the same place, dey go the same school, or dey stay the same house.		We might have to work with them, go to school with them, or live with them.
E tell me things wey go help me.		He tried his best to help me emotionally.
E write sey: " Even inside this ship, I thank sey I dey help people learn about am. "		Even on board this ship, I am reaping fruit to 's praise, " he wrote.
Even though sey that one happen, as time dey go, plenty of Adam pikin don show sey na be their King. ( Heb. 12: 1 ) Dem carry theirself down for God.		Nonetheless, throughout the generations " a great cloud " of Adam 's descendants have chosen to uphold God 's sovereignty.
Even though we get sin for body, why fit call us righteous people?		Why can view us as righteous, even though we are imperfect?
For July 1940, when e dey 15 years, e come do wetin dey im mind.		She achieved her goal in July 1940, at age 15.
For example, when I go one place wey deaf people dey gather, for where dem dey call Montreal, I preach to one young man wey im name na Eddie Taeger. E dey one group that time.		For example, in Montreal at a deaf club, I witnessed to Eddie Tager, a young man who was part of a gang.
From wetin dem dey do, dem dey tell their brothers sey: ' I no be your friend just because I want be your friend. But I be your friend because I love you. '		By their actions they are in effect saying, " I am your friend, not because I have to be, but because you are important to me. "
How Adam and Eve take trowey the freedom wey God give dem?		How was true freedom lost?
How take dey help us anytime wey we get problem, and wetin Bible talk sey get for mind for us?		How does comfort us in our trials, and what assurance does his Word provide?
How take dey make our mind come down?		How does provide consolation?
How the way Boaz take treat Ruth show sey e dey look stranger as dey look dem?		How did Boaz reflect 's view of strangers in his dealings with Ruth?
I come fill form sey I go like go. But around that time, the branch office wey dey Austria come ask me if I go like dey class 32 of Gilead School.		I applied to attend, and the Austria branch asked whether I would be interested in attending the 32nd class of Gilead School.
If give us holy spirit, we go strong well well!		If the strength we have comes from, we will be strong indeed!
If e comot, small peace fit dey.		Separation may bring a measure of peace.
Im name na John Wycliffe.		He strongly believed that everyone should be able to benefit from God 's Word.
Instead, dem come dey use their own name like, Jos or Paulo.		As a result, the brothers adopted the practice of identifying one another by their given names, such as Jos or Paulo, rather than by their surnames.
Israel people for Zechariah time, know sey Babylon na the correct place to keep " Wickedness. "		To the Israelites of Zechariah 's day, Shinar would be a fitting place for Wickedness to be confined.
de really protect us. "		really protects us. "
people happy well well for 537 B.C.E.		The year 537 B.C.E. was one of rejoicing for 's dedicated people.
Just think am sey the angels still dey tell you the same thing sey: ' Not let Satan use lie lie deceive you! '		Imagine, then, the angels shouting the same message to you: " Do not be fooled by Satan 's lies! "
Mary na person wey dey always think about God and e let God spirit direct am.		No doubt because she was a spiritually - minded person.
Na because if dem dey trace something like that, na from the man side dem dey trace am; no be woman side.		Because official genealogies were generally traced through the men.
Na for the year 537 before Jesus time, when Israel people come back to Jerusalem and build God temple again.		It was when the Israelites returned to Jerusalem to rebuild the temple in 537 B.C.E.
Na im make, people for the whole world dey first think about how people for different different place dey dress, so that dem no go make people vex.		Hence, 's people throughout the world take local customs into account so as not to cause offense.
Na im make the Bible Students fit do that kind thing.		But in many countries in the late 1800 ' s, the church was beginning to lose the backing of the State.
Na so e still be with person wey God spirit dey direct. E dey like to do things wey concern God.		Similarly, someone who keenly values spiritual or religious interests is called spiritually - minded.
Na true say we no de put hand for things wey Bible condemn.		We may well stay far away from practices that God hates.
Na true sey angels no dey make mistake, but the people wey dem help dey make mistake.		Of course, while the angels are perfect, the men whom they assisted were not.
Na true sey plenty better things go reach your hand if you baptize. But work still dey.		Although baptism opens the door to many blessings, it also involves responsibility.
No, we no go believe am.		Of course, that could never be true.
Satan want make us tire because e know sey that one fit make us stop to serve.		Satan the Devil wants to discourage us because he knows that discouragement can make us weak spiritually and in other ways.
Settle Quarrel Make Peace Dey, June		Misunderstandings About, No.
Seven Witness dey among this people wey dem arrest because dem no want put hand for war.		It also held seven of, all imprisoned for their Christian neutrality.
So, make we no forget wetin Moses talk!		Thus, how important it is that we keep well in mind Moses ' powerful words!
So my husband no too get time to prepare all the talk. But e ready to do anything for work even if e no easy. I learn many things from am.		Arthur had no extra time to prepare his talks, but his readiness to meet challenges in 's service was of great encouragement to me.
The topic na about one earthquake wey happen for Sumatra for 2004 wey make water scatter people property.		It was about an earthquake in Sumatra that in 2004 triggered the most devastating tsunamis in recorded history.
The truth be sey, na when we put as the number one person for our life we go really happy. - Read Psalm 1: 2, 3.		The fact is, we find true joy and success only when we give first place in our lives. - Read Psalm 1: 2, 3.
The way dem translate am match with other place for Bible wey talk sey God go bless people wey dey serve am well.		The revised wording harmonizes with other Bible passages that promise divine blessings for God 's faithful people.
This Bible dey for language wey pass 150. This one mean sey many people get part of this Bible or the complete one for their language.		This translation is available in whole or in part in over 150 languages, thus being available to a vast part of the population today.
This one mean sey, we ' don free from sin ' and we don ' be slave to wetin dey right. '		Even if we might not have spoken of it in those terms, we " were set free from sin " and we " became slaves to righteousness. "
This one touch me, come make me think well well about wetin I believe.		This shook me up a bit and made me think more deeply about what I believed.
Thompson, Jr., check my record whether I qualify.		Thompson, Jr., examined my qualifications.
To do this one, we need to ask ourself sey: ' I really believe sey this na the only organization wey dey use take do wetin e get for mind?		To do that, we do well to ask ourselves: ' Do I really believe that I am part of the only organization that has approved to accomplish his will?
Wetin fit help me if e dey hard me to sing come out?		How can I overcome any apprehension that may hold me back from singing out joyfully?
Wetin give us mind sey we fit choose wetin good?		How should we view the need to make decisions?
Wetin make talk sey dem use all their mind serve am, and how we fit copy dem?		Why did God view them as having served him with a complete heart, and how can we imitate them?
Wetin you fit do so that you go always dey ready?		What can you do to maintain a watchful attitude?
When Adam and Eve sin, wetin talk to give their children hope?		What encouragement did give at the time of the rebellion in Eden?
When we dey use Bible take correct our pikin or Bible student, e fit help am become Jesus disciple. Na Bible be the main thing wey we dey use take teach people.		By giving Scriptural discipline, we can help our child or a Bible student to reach the goal of becoming a follower of Christ.
When we want choose who we go marry.		Selecting a marriage mate.
Why want make we choose by ourself wetin we go do?		Why does expect us to make our own decisions?
Why human being need to settle with God?		Why do sinful humans need to be reconciled to God?
Why this good king come do this bad thing?		What had happened to that good king?
Why this matter concern the elders?		Why were the elders involved?
Why you dey sure sey one day people wey don die go come life again?		Why could she be certain of that?
If the Son make una free, una go really dey free. " - JOHN 8: 36.		If the Son sets you free, you will be truly free. " - JOHN 8: 36.
Make dem no let fear make dem stop to do wetin God want.		Do not yield to fear.
[CONTENT_REMOVED]		See footnote. )
[CONTENT_REMOVED]		See paragraphs 15 - 17 )
One sister wey dey always contribute to support work talk about the better thing wey dey happen to am for some years now.		A sister who contributes regularly to the Kingdom work tells of a blessing she has received: " By being materially generous, I have experienced an unusual phenomenon within myself over the years.
Wetin be the three things wey e talk sey make we do?		First, an attempt should be made to resolve the issue without involving others.
As people wey dey serve, make the way we dey live our life show sey law good and wetin Satan talk na lie.		As holy people, we prove by the way we live our lives that 's laws are good and that Satan 's accusations are false.
Daniel name mean sey " Na God Be My Judge. " This one show sey im papa and mama love.		Even Daniel 's name, which means " My Judge Is God, " points to God - fearing parents.
Wetin we go talk about for the next topic?		What will we yet consider?
Na better thing to get papa and mama wey love.		To have believing parents who truly love is a blessing.
Na better thing to arrange your time so that you fit do this one.		It is not wrong to make time for this; actually, it is the right thing to do.
How we fit help refugee continue to learn about?		spiritually?
Why we no dey take Jesus warning play?		Why do we pay attention to Jesus ' warning?
Wetin Paul mean when e talk this one?		What do Paul 's words mean?
But remember sey na where people dey, Jehoshaphat talk sey im and im people no get power. E no shame. ( 2 Chron.		But remember that Jehoshaphat acknowledged in a public prayer how weak he and his people felt.
Which shoe Bible say make we wear?		What symbolic footwear do Christians put on?
After one year, I come be regular pioneer.		After one year, I applied for regular pioneer service.
All of us wey dey serve, na part of im family.		As members of the Christian congregation, we are part of God 's household.
And e de help to support the weight of the iron wey the soldier wear for chest.		It was designed to help relieve the weight of his upper - body armor.
Apostle Paul sey: ' For last days, people go love only theirself, dem go like money and dem go like enjoyment instead of God. '		The apostle Paul wrote: " In the last days., men will be lovers of themselves, lovers of money,. lovers of pleasures rather than lovers of God. "
Apr. Wetin Get for Mind Go Happen!		Serve With a Complete Heart!
As Mary hear this one, e mind come down. So, e talk say: " See!		Rather than remain disturbed, Mary obediently replied: " Look!
As one of the person wey John dey send message, or wey dey do circuit overseer work, Demetrius fit don explain somethings wey John write.		As one of John 's envoys, or perhaps a traveling overseer, Demetrius likely reinforced what John had written.
As you dey do this one, you dey ' keep better things for heaven wey no dey finish.		Earnestly continue to search for divine truths.
Because I dey sure sey nothing, whether na die or life, angel or government, things wey dey now or the one wey go come, or spirit or something wey high or something wey deep or any other thing, fit comot us from the love wey God get for us, wey dey the body of our Oga, Christ Jesus. '		For I am convinced that neither death nor life nor angels nor governments nor things now here nor things to come nor powers nor height nor depth nor any other creation will be able to separate us from God 's love that is in Christ Jesus our Lord. "
But ' angel kill 185,000 men ' wey dey Assyria army for one night. - 2 Ki.		In one night, " the angel of went out and struck down 185,000 men. " - 2 Ki.
But as I come dey work for, I come see sey I dey safe.		But as I work closely with, I feel secure in his arms.
But e still make mistake.		Yet, he also made unwise decisions.
But the people wey dey listen to the talk support Brother Russell. Na Brother Russell be the main person wey dey give public talk that time. But even with that one, e still know sey " nobody fit talk sey if e no dey, work no go move, " because " na get the work wey we dey do. "		Although Brother Russell took the lead in presenting public talks at that time, he recognized that " no man is indispensable, " since " this is not man 's work; it 's God 's work. "
But wetin we go do so that this people no go spoil our better character? And wetin we go do to make happy?		So how can we turn away from the worldly attitudes that surround us and strive to please, the God of love?
Children need wetin pass that one. But, think am like this: If children go meeting wey dey use language wey dem understand well, dem fit learn plenty things. E fit even pass wetin their papa and mama think sey dem fit learn.		But consider this: At meetings conducted in the language they understand best, children may absorb instruction simply by being present, perhaps learning more than their parents realize.
Christoph tell one elder about the matter. The elder come tell am sey before e choose wetin e go do, make e think about wetin fit happen if e join. For example, the other young people fit dey like to show sey dem better pass other people.		He spoke about the matter to an elder, who asked Christoph to think about certain dangers before making a decision, such as the risk of getting infected by the spirit of competition.
Dem dey travel because of God work.		Whatever the case, they traveled for the sake of the good news.
Dem write wetin go do bad people for the two side of the scroll. ( Zech.		It contains a judgment message, which fills both sides of the scroll.
E ask me say: " When you go like make we start? "		When would you like to start? " he asked.
E get anything wey you fit learn from am? The thing be sey, you and your brother or sister fit no get the same character.		The point is, even though you have different personalities, you and your brother may be able to draw closer by focusing on the positive.
E nearly reach ten years wey Kumiko pioneer for Nepal. E sey: ' All my problem that time be like Red Sea wey block road for Israel people.		Looking back on her nearly ten years of service in Nepal, Kumiko says: " The problems I had worried about parted before me like the Red Sea.
E understand say some of this Jew people get good heart, and they fit change come serve. Na so Paul change too.		Zeal, if properly directed, can transform sincere individuals into zealous disciples of Christ, as Paul well knew.
E want make dem get better character so that brothers and sisters for congregation go fit dey do things like dem.		He expects them to set a good example, and he holds them accountable for the way they treat the congregation, " which he purchased with the blood of his own Son. "
Elijah tell Ahab sey Ahab na thief and e don kill person wey no do anything.		Elijah rightly judged Ahab as a murderer and a thief. What was 's verdict in this case?
Even with that one, my mama still go baptize to show sey e don give all im life.		Despite his threat, she decided to go ahead and get baptized in symbol of her dedication to God.
Everybody wey dey follow Jesus need to baptize, and na one of the better thing wey person need to do to get life wey no go end. - Matt.		Baptism is a requirement for Christians, and it is an essential step to gaining salvation. - Matt.
Ezekiel no follow put mark for people head and e no join kill the people wey no get mark.		Ezekiel was not involved in either the marking work or the destruction itself.
For example, for one village wey be Potala Pastillo, I dey like to blow flute give two Witness family wey get plenty pikin.		For example, in the village of Potala Pastillo, there were two Witness families with many children, and I used to play the flute for them.
For example, the man no want take care of im family, even when e fit do am; the man want use beating kill im wife or one of dem want make the other one stop to serve.		Willful nonsupport, extreme physical abuse, and the absolute endangerment of one 's spiritual life are exceptional situations that some have viewed as reasons for separation.
For the sixth day, use ' sand sand [ clay ] from ground ' make man. God make man so that man go fit copy im character. ( Gen.		Late in the sixth creative day, God fashioned " out of dust [ clay ] from the ground " a perfect man and gave him the capacity to reflect his Maker 's qualities.
For the whole world, servants of de speak different - different language.		Worldwide, 's people speak many different languages.
Hans talk sey: " We beg sey make e direct us because we ready to go anywhere wey e want make we go.		Hans relates: " We prayed to for guidance because we wanted to go where he directed us.
How one brother feel when one young brother come dey do the work wey im dey do before?		What did one brother say about handing over his responsibility?
How we fit take follow im example?		How can humans imitate him in exercising this quality?
I still dey remember how me and my husband dey enjoy when we dey preach together.		I have many wonderful memories of us working together in the ministry.
If we dey do this one, peace go dey congregation.		The result of our being peaceable is that true worshippers enjoy an abundance of peace.
If we dey think like Jesus, when temptation come, we no go want fall put.		When we are confronted with temptations, our Christlike attitude will move us to push them away.
If you dey do like that, remember this better advice: ' Carry yourself down when you dey do things, with the mind sey other people better pass you. ' - Philippians 2: 3.		If so, remember this important counsel: " With humility consider others superior to you. " - Philippians 2: 3.
Im husband sey: " Ten of our Bible student come the first Memorial wey we do for Madagascar. And this one make us happy! "		Adds Louis, " Imagine, at our first Memorial in Madagascar, ten of our Bible students attended! "
Instead, make dem remember sey to train young men go make the work go front.		Rather, it is in the best interests of the work when younger ones are trained to handle responsibilities.
Insurance and Pension Money: This na contribution wey person go talk sey na Witness branch office wey dey im country, go collect im life insurance or pension money.		Insurance and Retirement Plans: A donation made by specifying an entity used by 's as the beneficiary of a life insurance policy, individual retirement account, or a retirement / pension plan.
Jesus continue to talk sey: ' When e come see am, e carry am put for im shoulder, come dey happy.		Jesus continued: " When he has found it, he puts it on his shoulders and rejoices.
Jesus tell the people wey ready to follow im example sey: " Make una happy even when people curse una, suffer una, and lie sey una do many many bad thing because of me.		Addressing those who would follow in his footsteps, Jesus said: " Happy are you when people reproach you and persecute you and lyingly say every sort of wicked thing against you for my sake.
Later, we come visit one congregation wey different from the one wey dey our area. We see many young people for there.		Later, however, we visited a congregation where there were many young people - not an old - ladies ' club at all!
Make wetin we dey choose show sey we value the freedom wey give us.		May we show by the choices we make that we treasure that freedom.
Matthew 5: 3 talk sey: " People wey know sey dem need God for their life dey happy because the Kingdom wey dey heaven na their own. "		Matthew 5: 3 says: " Happy are those conscious of their spiritual need, since the Kingdom of the heavens belongs to them. "
Methuselah na Noah grandpapa and Jared na im great - great - grandpapa. Jared die 366 years after dem born Noah.		They also included his grandfather Methuselah and his great - great - grandfather Jared, whose life overlapped Noah 's by 366 years.
Na because my papa put hand well well for Nazi government matter. That time, my papa na driver for one man wey be oga for Nazi political party for our area.		My father was very involved in Nazi activities and was the chauffeur for the leader of a local branch of that party.
Na im be the president of the Watch Tower Society that time.		Rutherford, then president of the Watch Tower Society.
Na im make Paul tell Christians make dem get the kind faith wey people wey dey direct dem get.		After all, Paul urged Christians to imitate the faith of those taking the lead among them.
Na only dem God give im law.		They were the only nation given God 's " word " and " his regulations and judgments. "
Na so e still be today.		It is similar today.
Na the eye wey God take dey look brothers and sisters for congregation you take dey look dem? You dey see dem as people wey never mold finish?		Do you see your brothers and sisters as God does - not as a finished product, but as a work in progress?
Na wetin one mama for Japan do.		A mother in Japan did just that.
No do like Pharisee people.		Imitate, not the Pharisees.
No let Satan put fear for your body, make your hand weak sotey you no go fit fight am again! - 1 Pet.		Never allow Satan to intimidate you into dropping your hands in defeat! - 1 Pet.
One husband and wife dey use preaching counter wey book full take dey preach for one busy area. Dem stand for front of one of the supermarket wey big pass for San Salvador		Two couples share in public witnessing, using carts in front of one of the biggest malls in San Salvador
One sister for Alabama, U.S.A., use im life do work. Wetin help am? Na strong mind.		A Christian sister in Alabama, U.S.A., had to develop courage to set spiritual goals.
Our brothers and sisters fit need place to stay when dem dey attend school wey organization arrange.		Students at theocratic schools may need places to stay, as may construction volunteers.
Psalm 37: 11 talk sey: ' Dem go happy well well because peace go dey everywhere. '		Psalm 37: 11 answers: " They will find exquisite delight in the abundance of peace. "
Public talk wey dem advertise for The Irish Times newspaper for May 20, 1910		Public talk advertised in The Irish Times, May 20, 1910
Satan come talk about Job, sey: ' But to change things for am, take your hand touch am for im body and im bone, and you go see sey e go curse you for your front. '		Satan then said about Job: " But, for a change, stretch out your hand and strike his bone and flesh, and he will surely curse you to your very face. "
So e come want change im character. E go beg the brother wey e first quarrel with. And e do everything to fit control im temper.		Wanting to change, he apologized to the brother with whom he had been arguing and then worked hard to control his temper.
So for this topic, we go see ( 1 ) how Noah, Daniel, and Job take know, ( 2 ) how the things wey dem know about take help dem, and ( 3 ) how we go take get the kind faith wey dem get.		With that in mind, let us consider ( 1 ) how Noah, Daniel, and Job came to know God, ( 2 ) how that knowledge benefited them, and ( 3 ) how we can develop a faith like theirs.
Some court matter wey we don win, don help some of our brothers and sisters to fit dey preach and worship without wahala.		Some favorable court decisions have refined legal codes, thus protecting freedom of speech and of worship.
Some people wey no too get money feel sey dem no go fit give their visitor wetin other brothers dey give their visitor.		Others have limited income and believe that they could never offer what other members of the congregation could.
Sometimes, Bible even tell people wey dey serve sey make dem ' shout with happiness, ' when dem dey sing. - Ps.		In fact, within the context of singing praises, the Scriptures sometimes direct 's worshippers to " shout joyfully. " - Ps.
That time, people dey come from different different place dey come do business for Babylon. People wey dey do research about wetin happen for different different country for olden days, don see wetin show sey many Jews learn how to do business for there.		Babylon was a center of trade and commerce in the ancient world, and documents that have been unearthed indicate that many Jews learned the art of buying and selling there, while others became skilled craftsmen.
The advice wey Paul give the brothers for Rome fit help us when we get problem with our brothers.		How does Paul 's counsel to the congregation in Rome help us in dealing with disputes?
The better word wey dem dey tell me dey make my mind come down! "		Their encouragement makes me feel so much better! "
The first topic wey we go study explain wetin Jesus talk about the vine and the farmer. And e explain how e concern our preaching work.		The first of these two articles considers Jesus ' parables of the vine and of the sower and explains what they teach us about our preaching work.
The only thing I come dey talk na, ' Thank you. '		All I could say was, ' Thank you. '
The soldier wey Asa get be like half of the soldier wey Zerah get.		The Ethiopians outnumbered Asa 's army nearly 2 to 1.
The truth be sey, person enemy go come from im own family. ' - Matt.		Indeed, a man 's enemies will be those of his own household. " - Matt.
The way Boaz treat Ruth show the kind love wey get for this woman wey don ' come hide under im wing. ' ( Ruth 2: 12, 20; Prov.		Boaz ' kindness was actually an expression of 's loyal love toward a woman who had come to ' seek refuge under the wings of the God of Israel. '
The way we behave go show wetin really dey our mind.		For example, a brother may have worked hard to prepare a talk and give it before a large audience.
This topic tell us why e good make we praise like the person wey write Psalm 147.		This article explains, and it shows why we should have a like desire to praise our God.
To show sey na better King, wetin e go do? And why e go do am? love us well well.		Why does the vindication of God 's sovereignty include the fulfillment of his promises?
Today, wetin dey many people mind na only to pursue wetin belle go chop and their business. Dem no dey put mind for things wey concern God. ( Matt.		Many are so wrapped up in their mundane affairs of life that they are not " conscious of their spiritual need. "
Two things fit help you: ( 1 ) Prepare well, and ( 2 ) no tire to tell people wetin you don learn.		Two basic steps will help: Prepare well, and do not give up sharing what you know with others.
We dey preach for anywhere wey we fit see people ( Check paragraph 10 )		Read. ) We preach wherever people can be found ( See paragraph 10 )
We dey sure sey for that new world we go enjoy ' God favor as e take plenty reach. '		Doubtless, 's new system of things on earth will witness " the surpassing riches of his undeserved kindness. "
We fit stand well. Wetin go help us na to hold our songbook go up.		We can use good posture by holding our songbook up high.
We fit still show sey we dey support with wetin we dey choose.		We can also show our support of God 's sovereignty by our personal decisions.
We get the chance to tell everybody wey ready to hear about this better promise wey dey Revelation 21: 4, 5 wey talk sey: ' [ God ] go dry all the water wey dey comot for their eye, dem no go die again, dem no go even cry because of sey person die, trouble and pain no go dey again.		We have the privilege of sharing with all who will listen the thrilling promise that is found at Revelation 21: 4, 5: " [ God ] will wipe out every tear from their eyes, and death will be no more, neither will mourning nor outcry nor pain be anymore.
We go gree talk true for matter wey we know sey to talk small lie fit make us get plenty money or property?		Will we be honest in situations where a slight omission or twist of words might bring us material gain?
We still be their friend and e dey make us know sey we go really enjoy life for paradise.		It also builds lasting friendships and increases mutual confidence in the coming blessings under God 's Kingdom.
We still need to be good friends with other people.		We also need to develop strong friendships with others.
Wetin I plan to use my life do when I still be boy, make me happy.		The plans I made as a boy have made me happy in ways I did not foresee. "
Wetin Josiah do wey kill am?		Why did Josiah lose God 's protection and his life?
Wetin go help us dey sure sey how take dey rule, na im better pass?		How can we strengthen our conviction that 's sovereignty is best?
Wetin we go get if we continue to do everything wey we fit do to serve?		What can we look forward to if we continue to serve whole - souled?
When we dey do wetin talk and we serve am well, we dey show sey we support am.		We can uphold 's sovereignty by maintaining our integrity and by serving God faithfully.
Why we no go only read Bible when we dey preach?		Why do we need to do more than merely read scriptures when preaching?
You think sey na fear make three of dem no join the fight?		Were those three men running from the battle out of fear?
You think sey we go need key, padlock, alarm or even police when thief or bad people no dey again?		And with crime gone, there will be no security industry, no alarm systems, no police forces, perhaps no locks or keys!
Your husband or wife wey no dey serve fit no want make you serve the way you like.		What if your spouse tries to limit your worship?
paragraph 14 ) The 70 years wey the Jews be slave for Babylon use many ways take be like wetin happen to Christians after people start to teach lie lie for church.		paragraph 14 ) There are many similarities between the Jewish captivity of 70 years in Babylon and what happened to Christians after the apostasy developed.
the second time, dem go cut the rope.		for the second time, they were to cut the cords.
If we do wetin we no suppose do, we fit get problem with other people.		Second, if we act beyond the scope of our authority, we are likely to get into conflict with others.
E get any Memorial wey go be the last one?		Will there ever be a final Memorial?
Na 430 years after Abraham don cross Euphrates River, im children children come be people wey go later stay the Promise Land. - Ex.		It was not until 430 years after Abraham had crossed the Euphrates that his descendants were organized into a nation that would take possession of the land. - Ex.
But e come promise sey the people wey e don select go be ' like dew wey come from ' as ' other sheep ' dey follow dem dey preach the good news about God kingdom.		He promised that anointed ones would be " like dew from " as they preached the good news of the Kingdom, supported by the " other sheep. "
Make we dey show love ' for everything wey we dey do.		We " go on walking in love " when we manifest this quality in every aspect of our life.
Apart from the people wey dey suffer dem, Jephthah still get problem with im brothers and the people wey dey lead Israel.		In addition to the enemy nations, Jephthah also had challenges with his own brothers and the leaders of Israel.
Wetin mek Jephthah do wetin e do?		What may have motivated Jephthah to react the way he did?
Jesus still tell Pontius Pilate say e no de support any side for politics.		Jesus also stated his neutral position to the Roman authorities.
E easy for Jephthah and im pikin to do wetin e promise?		How easy was it for Jephthah and his daughter to pay his vow to God?
If you get problem, which thing you fit think for your mind sey dey happen?		When you face trials, what invisible scene might you imagine?
Why e be sey e good to know where we suppose do reach for our dressing and character?		How should modesty govern our choice of dress and grooming as well as our behavior?
Which kind problem stranger dey face today?		What challenges do many strangers face today?
How language fit help children learn for meeting?		How does language affect what a child absorbs at meetings?
Which other things dey wey Satan and the demons no fit do?		What other limitations do Satan and the demons have?
Even though sey Asa use all im mind serve, which mistake e make?		Though Asa 's heart was complete toward, what problem did he face?
How to Get Real Freedom		The Way to True Freedom
Wetin be the different different meaning of ' flesh ' for Bible?		What are some ways in which the term " flesh " is used in the Bible?
E no dey easy for people wey come from another place to quick master how things be for our place, so make we take am easy with dem.		Be patient with those who are adjusting to a new country.
Abraham still wait for many years before dem born im grandpikin, Esau and Jacob ( Check paragraph 9, 10 )		Abraham had to wait many years before his grandsons Esau and Jacob were born ( See paragraphs 9, 10 )
After, my uncle, wey im name na Nick, come carry me, my two brother and two sister go stay with am.		Thereafter, my uncle Nick took me and my siblings into his care.
After, when Emperor Theodosius I ( 379 - 395 C.E. ) come dey rule, Catholic Church come be the religion wey Rome government sey make e dey everywhere for their area.		Later, under Emperor Theodosius I ( 379 - 395 C.E. ), the Catholic Church, as the contaminated form of Christianity came to be known, became the official religion of the Roman Empire.
After this thing happen, we preach for everywhere for the village. And e surprise us sey the people listen well well. Wetin make dem listen?		After that, we preached throughout that village, and to our delight, the people were very receptive.
And una clean the stadium well make e fine.		And you people have cleaned the stadium so nicely.
And wetin e talk about husband or wife wey want go stay im own? Jesus talk sey the only thing wey fit end marriage na when husband or wife go sleep with another person and who e marry no gree forgive am. ( Matt. 19: 9; Heb.		Jesus taught that the only Scriptural ground for dissolving a marriage vow is when an innocent mate chooses not to forgive an adulterous partner.
And when e die, e die as person wey serve well; and na wetin take dey remember am till tomorrow. - Heb.		Years later, he died faithful, his record of integrity firmly sealed in 's memory. - Heb.
Apart from that one, holy spirit fit make Paul do things wey e no fit do by imself.		Not only that, but God 's spirit could empower Paul to perform tasks that he would never have been able to complete in his own power.
Apostle Paul talk for chapter 3 sey: ' Everybody don sin and na free gift dem get when dem talk sey dem dey righteous because of im favor wey e take release dem with the ransom wey Jesus Christ pay. '		In chapter 3, we read: " All have sinned., and it is as a free gift that they are being declared righteous by his undeserved kindness through the release by the ransom paid by Christ Jesus. "
As I want comot, dem come start to sing Kingdom song.		At that point, however, they started singing a Kingdom song.
As the convention close that day, na so people stand for line make dem fit dey among the first people wey the magazine go dey reach their hand every month.		After the session, delegates lined up for hours to be among the first subscribers to the magazine.
Because e want do wetin the Law talk, e come start to destroy all the juju wey dey Israel. E still arrange make dem do the kind Passover wey dem never do before.		Guided by God 's Word, Josiah began a vigorous campaign against idolatry and arranged an unprecedented celebration of the Passover.
Because na faith make us believe sey God dey and na im make everything, even though we never see am before.		None of us have seen God or observed something being created.
Before some of our brothers begin serve, them de drink anyhow. But now, they don tell theirself say they no want drink at all.		Before they came to a knowledge of the truth, some of our brothers abused alcohol, but now they are determined to abstain from it.
But show how e love us reach when e do the kind thing wey nobody fit do.		however, expressed his love toward fallen mankind in an incomparable act of undeserved kindness.
But before Maria baptize, im mama don dey ask imself sey: ' Maria no too small to baptize?		Even so, earlier her mother had some lingering questions. She had asked herself: ' Is Maria too young to get baptized?
But dem dey really get wetin dem want? No.		But do such confrontations achieve the desired results?
But even with that one, some people fit sey dem no want keep beard beard.		Still, some brothers might decide not to have a beard.
But how e take dey help us?		But how does he do so?
But things no be as the police talk.		But things worked out very differently.
But we come see sey people wey dey speak Kyrgyz language for our congregation come dey plenty.		But an increasing number in the congregation spoke Kyrgyz as their mother tongue.
Dem dey think sey na wetin science talk, God use make the things wey dey this world.		They think that God used evolution to create different forms of life.
Dem no go fit control theirself and dem go wicked finish.		They would be without self - control, fierce.
Dey call dem or send dem message.		Keep in touch with need - greaters who moved away from your congregation.
Do wetin go make dem dey enjoy the place. - Matt.		Help them to feel at home. - Matt.
E beg sey: " we dey beg you, abeg save us!.		It includes the plea: ", save us, please, we beg!.
E go still look whether the brother family dey do well.		He also observes the family of the brother under consideration.
E go still show sey we dey do like the God wey love come from. ( Eph.		It identifies us as Jesus ' followers and as imitators of, the Source of love.
E good make we still get the kind mind wey David get when e tell sey: ', abeg o, help me make I fit sabi how you dey do things, show me your road.		We need to have an attitude like that of the psalmist David, who sang: " Make me know your ways, O; teach me your paths.
E no easy to live clean life for this wicked world.		All our struggles to remain clean in a world full of wickedness will be worthwhile.
E talk sey: " The public talk wey dem give that day na about how person wey no happy, go fit dey happy.		However, after she made the effort to attend a public meeting, she wrote: " The talk was about discouragement.
E talk sey: ' E dey make the gate for your city strong. E dey bless your children wey dey the city.		In thinking about the restoration of Jerusalem, the psalmist sang about: " He makes the bars of your city gates strong; he blesses your sons within you.
For Meeting: Na and im organization invite all of us come meeting.		At meetings: We welcome all who attend our Christian meetings as fellow guests at a spiritual meal.
For example, for 1995, dem sey make I go teach for Ministerial Training School.		For example, in 1995, I was asked to teach the Ministerial Training School.
For example, when we gather together with our brothers and sisters for meeting, e dey make us happy. For there we dey hear things wey go help us. ( Ps.		For example, true worshippers find delight and derive much encouragement from meeting together to worship.
Give examples of the kind partial wey Jesus face?		Give examples of prejudice shown toward Jesus.
How God take use James explain wetin faith mean?		What was the disciple James inspired to explain regarding the meaning of true Christian faith?
How dem take start to dey teach lie lie for congregation?		Explain how genuine Christianity came to be corrupted.
How e make am feel?		How did he feel?
If no dey pity person, you think sey e go put this kind arrangement for ground?		Would you not agree that this arrangement is an expression of God 's mercy?
If we dey face serious wahala wey dey hard us to bear, wetin fit help us?		But what can help us when we come face - to - face with such difficult circumstances?
If you quick plan better thing wey you want use your life do, e no go tey before your plan go get head.		The earlier you make plans by setting good goals, the sooner you will have success.
Instead, dem make us near pass before. And we trust am sey when im time reach, e go settle matter as e want am.		Instead, we drew closer to him, trusting him to resolve matters in his own time and in his own way.
don show us sey e love us, and e no leave us. We don help many people learn about. This people and our children don show us sey dem love us.		We felt the love of our loyal God, of our children, and of the many whom we have been privileged to help find the truth.
don talk am sey, for this our time, e go be like sey na dry season we dey. This one mean sey e go dey hungry people to hear wetin talk.		foretold that in our day it would be as if there were a drought, that is, people would be thirsty " for hearing the words of. "
put ' Im holy spirit inside am. '		put within him His holy spirit. "
Jew people get one group wey them de fight for freedom. Them de call them Jewish Zealots.		Jewish Zealots, or nationalists, stirred up these feelings among the people.
Joseph still talk sey dem put am for prison for wetin e no do.		Clearly, he was the victim of injustice.
Just think about how e go don hard prophet Nathan to correct King David, wey try to cover the bad thing wey e do. ( 2 Sam.		Imagine, for example, how difficult it must have been for the prophet Nathan to speak to David after the king tried to cover up his gross sin!
Make I tell una why me and my wife Maria ready to ' suffer because of wetin good. ' I go still tell una how don take bless us because we no leave am. - 1 Pet.		Allow me to relate why my wife, Maria, and I were prepared to " suffer for the sake of righteousness " and how we were blessed for remaining faithful. - 1 Pet.
Make we get faith and ready to obey like Noah, Daniel, and Job!		Therefore, we want to imitate the faith and obedience of Noah, Daniel, and Job!
Make we love and worship with all our life. Make we still dey try well well to keep the one mind wey dey our different different congregation.		Let us go on rendering exclusive devotion to by loving and serving him whole - souled and putting forth earnest effort to maintain oneness in the Christian brotherhood.
Make we sey na you and Zechariah dey see the vision as e dey happen: Four chariot ' dey come from the center of two mountain.		Picture the scene: Charging forward " from between two mountains. of copper " come four chariots, likely fitted for battle.
Make we shine our eye, no be everything wey dem show for TV we go watch and no be everything wey dem play for radio we go listen to.		We cannot let our guard down, passively accepting any entertainment that is offered.
Many people wey dey do special full time work dey enjoy am. Na so e still be for me and my wife.		As has been true for many in the special full - time ministry, exciting and challenging assignments awaited Angie and me.
Mouth no fit talk how I happy reach when I see dem!		Imagine how touched I was to see them and to be with them!
Na God spirit help people write Bible. But that one no mean sey na still God spirit help people wey translate the Septuagint, Wycliffe Bible, King James Version, or any other translation.		Christians today need not think that the work of translating the Septuagint, Wycliffe 's Bible, the King James Version, or any other translation was inspired by God.
Na Stephen Langton wey be one church leader for olden days put all the chapter for Bible.		The 13th - century cleric Stephen Langton divided the Bible into chapters.
Part of the things wey e talk na: ' Make una no thief, make una no deceive person, and make una no lie give each other. '		In part, God said: " You must not steal, you must not deceive, and you must not deal falsely with one another. "
Paul talk am four times sey ' some of dem ' no hear word.		Paul four times says that " some of them " disobeyed.
Remember wetin Paul talk about people for congregation wey no dey do wetin Bible talk.		Recall Paul 's counsel regarding disorderly ones in the congregation.
SONG: 8, 54		SONGS: 8, 54
So, I follow wetin elders tell me and small small, I come be friend again. '		So I accepted the discipline, and in time I recovered spiritually. "
So, if we do wetin we suppose do, promise sey, e go ' finish our training ' so that we fit know where we suppose do reach and get other better character wey God like. - 1 Pet.		If we do our part, promises that he will ' finish our training, ' helping us to develop modesty and other godly qualities. - 1 Pet.
So like person wey dey learn work, e good make you learn how to preach well.		As with any career, you need time to become skilled.
So make we ask ourself sey: ' Na other people dey do all the work because I no want put body for the work?		Each of us does well to ask himself: ' Am I content to let others carry the bulk of the workload?
Some brothers come meet Paul. When e see them, e " thank God and e heart strong. "		Upon seeing them from a distance, Paul " thanked God and took courage. "
Some of dem dey chop too much before. Some first dey drink like sey tomorrow no dey, dey put hand for sex matter wey no clean for God eye and dey do other bad things.		In the past, some who are now struggled with overeating, heavy drinking, smoking, drug abuse, sexual immorality, and the like.
Some of dem na Bethelite, pioneer, and elder.		Some of them serve as Bethelites, pioneers, and elders.
Some people fit think sey dem fit explain the meaning of wetin dey Bible by theirself.		Some may feel that they can interpret the Bible on their own.
Sometimes, person fit think about food, work, play, or love matter.		That does not refer to a Christian who occasionally thinks about food, employment, recreation, or even romance.
THE main thing for many people life today, na money.		FOR many people today, money is the big issue.
The belt wey Roman soldiers de wear that time get iron. This iron de protect their waist.		A Roman military belt had metal plates that protected a soldier 's waist.
The kings wey rule for Israel different from the ones wey rule for other country. How? Dem do wetin God Law talk, no be wetin dey their mind.		How different those faithful kings were from the leaders of other nations, men who were guided by human wisdom and shortsighted strategy!
The man or the woman fit no get am for mind sey that kind thing go happen.		Yes, a distinct trial that many have faced is that of losing a beloved marriage mate in death.
The message na about two stick wey dem join together, one " na for Judah " and the other one " na for Joseph. "		Consider the message he gave to the prophet Ezekiel regarding the joining together of two sticks, the stick " for Judah " and the stick " for Joseph. "
The next topic go answer this question.		The next article considers that question.
Then Jesus tell them the kind work wey e come do.		Jesus then explained to the crowd the true nature of his work.
This one de help me understand how de think. "		That way, I feel more in tune with 's thinking. "
This one give me another chance to do the same thing wey Jesus do. Jesus travel go far far place to help people. ( 1 Pet.		That would give me a new opportunity to follow in a literal sense the steps of the Master, who traveled to distant towns and cities to help 's sheep.
This topic tell us how we go take shine our eye so that nothing go make us sleep.		This article explains how we can avoid being distracted from our watchfulness.
Till e die, e go dey with. ' ( 1 Sam.		For all his days, he is lent to. "
Time and power: people dey busy well well, and dem get many things wey dem dey do.		Time and energy: 's servants are very busy and often have multiple commitments.
Today, papa and mama wey dey serve still want make their children choose well.		Today, Christian parents have a similar interest in helping their children make wise decisions.
Today, we self dey fight the kind fight wey no easy.		We too are fighting a difficult and tiring battle.
True true, David see am sey all the time wey e use take wait for, no be waste.		Yes, David felt that the wait would be worth it.
We believe sey e dey hand to give us wetin we need and sey e fit give us?		How strong is our faith in 's desire and ability to provide for us?
We fit dey sure say de answer our prayer, and e de help us ( Check paragraph 18 )		We can be sure that answers our prayers for help ( See paragraph 18 )
We no fit control ourself finish because we get sin for body.		No imperfect human can exercise perfect self - control.
Wetin ' Ephraim ' mean?		What is represented by the term " Ephraim "?
Wetin Israel people need to choose and why e hard dem to choose wetin to do?		What choice did the ancient Israelites have, and why was it difficult for them to decide wisely?
Wetin Jephthah pikin talk show sey e use all im mind believe sey wetin want mek e do, na im better pass.		Her answer showed that she fully trusted that whatever asked from her would be good.
Wetin be another thing wey make be the Person wey suppose rule us?		What is one reason why has the right to govern the world?
Wetin go help Christians that time face all the wahala? - 1 Pet.		What could help Christians everywhere to get through those stressful times? - 1 Pet.
Wetin go show sey we no want make bad thing dey happen for congregation?		How can we do our part in keeping wickedness out of 's house?
Wetin make the Jew people forget about temple like that?		How could the Jews have abandoned their divinely appointed task so quickly?
Wetin some servant talk about how take bless dem?		How do 's servants feel about the rewards they receive?
Wetin we go remember as we dey try respect and praise elders?		Why is rendering proper honor to elders a concern?
Wetin you go carry for mind as you dey go?		In harmony with Jesus ' counsel, talk with your brother.
What if government talk sey dem no want dey see anybody dey go our meeting, if not the person go pay money, dem go put the person for prison, or dem fit even punish am pass like that?		Or maybe the government says that if anyone meets to worship, he will have to pay a fine, go to prison, or be punished with something even worse.
When God ask Adam wetin happen, e come dey blame im wife. E sey: ' The woman wey you give me make e dey with me, na im give me fruit from the tree, so I come chop am. '		When brought to account by God, Adam blamed his wife, saying: " The woman whom you gave to be with me, she gave me fruit from the tree, so I ate. "
When go bring people wey don die come life again, Naboth and im children go dey among dem. This one go show sey, true true, na God wey dey judge matter well.		Naboth, his sons, and their families will experience perfect justice when resurrects the righteous ones.
Where dem first send me go preach dey Cirencester, one fine town for Cotswolds.		My first assignment was in Cirencester, a picturesque town in the Cotswolds.
Whether we go get life for heaven or earth, why Romans chapter 8 fit help us?		No matter which hope we have, why can we benefit from considering Romans chapter 8?
Which good thing go happen if you de make your light shine?		What can you expect as you let your light shine?
Which story for Bible give Martha mind sey people wey don die go come life again?		What Bible accounts gave Martha confidence in the resurrection?
Why we fit talk sey people wey dey serve ' don die leave sin '?		In what sense have we who hope to live forever in Paradise " died with reference to sin "?
You dey run go meet to help you?		Are you taking refuge in?
You don promise for prayer sey you go use your life serve am? To show sey you don promise, you don baptize?		Have you dedicated your life to and symbolized your dedication by water baptism?
You go happy if e trowey the gift for dustbin or, e use am wound another person?		How disappointed you would be if you learned that he had thrown your gift in the trash or, worse yet, that he had used it to injure someone!
You think sey e go easy to start study with Gavin?		Was it possible to help Gavin?
You think sey e good to choose wetin we want do before we check wetin Bible talk?		Would it be wise to make important decisions about our family and our livelihood without first consulting the Bible?
Every gift wey good and every gift wey complete na from the Father. ' - JAS.		Every good gift and every perfect present is from. the Father. " - JAS.
God word dey alive and e get power. ' - HEB.		The word of God is alive and exerts power. " - HEB.
Na the peace wey God dey give, na im make their mind come down.		Their hearts and minds were soothed by the peace of God.
[CONTENT_REMOVED]		See paragraphs 9, 12 )
Later for apostle time, when God give im people holy spirit, ' nobody feel sey the property wey e get, na im own. But dem share their property together. '		Later, when holy spirit operated on the first - century congregation of anointed ones, " not even one of them would say that any of the things he possessed was his own, but they had all things in common. "
Na big blessing for Israel people and for us to serve, the God wey no dey change and wey we fit trust for everything! - Mal.		What an extraordinary privilege for the Israelites - and for us - to be servants of, the God who is consistent and loyal in all his ways! - Mal.
Na better thing Jesus teach Martha.		Jesus was teaching Martha a valuable lesson.
Another time, James and John tell Jesus make e put them for big position for e Kingdom, and make they sitdown for e left and right side. - Mark 10: 35 - 40.		Another time, James and John requested that Jesus give them prominent places alongside him in his Kingdom. - Mark 10: 35 - 40.
After David ask this question, e come start to dey talk the better better character wey person suppose get before fit invite am.		He followed that question with a discussion of spiritual qualities that God looks for in his guests.
If our person die, e get other Bible verse wey fit help us. Some of dem na:		If you are grieving, you too can find soothing comfort from such scriptures as the following:
Wetin Nehemiah see for Jerusalem wey no fit stop am to build Jerusalem fence?		What did not prevent Nehemiah from rebuilding the walls of Jerusalem?
How we de produce new seed?		How do we produce new Kingdom seed?
Wetin help am to wait reach like that?		What helped David to wait patiently?
Wetin papa and mama go do to copy example?		What can parents do to follow 's example?
Wetin you know about brothers and sisters wey dey do special full - time work?		What can be said about those who are in special full - time service?
Which question we go answer for this topic?		What questions will we now consider?
You Dey Let Mold You?		Do You Let the Great Potter Mold You?
And when James dey talk about the faith wey Abraham get, e ask sey: ' No be because of the better thing wey Abraham our papa do when e sacrifice Isaac im pikin for altar make God sey im na better person?		By contrast, referring to another ancient man of faith, James asks: " Was not Abraham our father declared righteous by works after he offered up Isaac his son on the altar?
The first thing wey you need to do na to pray make help you fit study Bible.		First, pray to for the needed self - discipline to study his Word.
How apostle Peter take help us know why Christian suppose baptize?		How did the apostle Peter illustrate the importance of baptism?
Dem Use Their Mind Do the Work for Madagascar		They Offered Themselves Willingly - In Madagascar
E still good make you dey pray with dem, and dey remember dem for your prayer.		Also, pray with them and for them.
For Bible time, high priest dey make Israel people dey sure sey go forgive their sin. Since Jesus na our High Priest today, we even dey sure more more sey ' e fit pity us and show us favor wey go help us when we need help. ' - Heb.		If the role of the high priest reassured the Israelites that their sins would be forgiven, how much more so should the services of our High Priest, Jesus, reassure us that " we may receive mercy and find undeserved kindness to help us at the right time. " - Heb.
Wetin want make people wey dey serve am do?		What does require of his worshippers?
You Dey Run Go Meet to Help You?		Are You Taking Refuge in?
After Pentecost 33 C.E, e no come be must sey Christian go follow wetin dey the Law.		After Pentecost 33 C.E., true worshippers were not obliged to keep the Mosaic Law.
All the Bethelite for Brooklyn dey different congregation for New York City.		All Bethel family members in Brooklyn were assigned to congregations in the New York City area.
Amos na shepherd and e dey humble. E work na to harvest sycamore fig, and people take this fruit as food for poor people. Even with that one, choose Amos make e be prophet.		took note of that humble shepherd who engaged in menial seasonal work as a nipper of sycamore figs - food considered fit only for the poor.
And I don really see sey love me like papa wey love im pikin.		became more real to me, as a loving father would be.
And dem go need to check the way dem take write am for Hebrew language, wetin the other verse dem talk, and other place for Bible wey talk something like that.		Hence, translators must determine the correct sense, taking into account the Hebrew poetic style, the context, and the related Bible passages.
And e go save dem. E no dey our hand to judge who God go save and who e go destroy.		Clearly, it is not our role to judge whether people should be executed or preserved alive.
And even your brothers and sisters fit gain well well from you.		Moreover, your spiritual progress and course of self - sacrifice can result in priceless benefits to your fellow believers.
As Felix Fajardo take talk am		As told by Felix Fajardo
As time dey go, many people come dey join Witness because of the truth wey dem learn from Bible.		During the following decades, millions of new ones learned Bible truths and became 's.
As we don hear from all the young people for this topic, we no need to fear Satan or the demons.		As the young ones quoted in this article have shown, there is no need to feel intimidated by Satan and the demons.
Before we choose wetin to do for any serious matter, make we ask ourself: ' Wetin I want do go show sey I love?		When facing important decisions, make it a practice to ask: ' Will this decision give evidence of my love for?
Bible show sey na move dem. Na im make dem leave their house and the work wey dem dey do for Babylon.		They were the ones " whose spirit the true God had stirred " to leave behind the security of their homes and businesses.
Bible talk sey: ' Get better mind for each other, dey get mind to pity, dey forgive each other well well. ' ( Eph.		You promote peaceful relationships by heeding the admonition: " Become kind to one another, tenderly compassionate, freely forgiving one another. "
Brothers wey don baptize, need to show sey dem get strong mind.		Others who should be courageous and go to work are baptized brothers.
But Jesus no be like Satan; e like name well well.		Jesus, on the other hand, truly loved the name of.
But for eye, no body or country better pass another one.		But does not think that one person or group of people is better than another.
But no matter how e be, you fit learn from Job example.		Yet no matter what happens, you can find comfort in the example of Job.
But wetin faith really be?		But what exactly is faith?
Dem go still see am sey you dey think about wetin you believe.		They will also see that you have given much thought to your basic beliefs.
Dem no comot for Egypt until Herod die.		They remained there until Herod died.
E dey 19 years for 1970.		In 1970 he was 19 years old and had recently begun serving at Bethel in Britain.
E dey stay for Wellington, Kansas. E continue to dey pioneer even when e don pass 90 years.		Her mother, Ruth, a zealous Witness in Wellington, Kansas, continued pioneering into her 90 ' s.
E even talk sey na ' people for this world ' get that kind character. So, e tell dem the story because e want make dem learn better thing from am. Wetin be this better thing?		He labeled such behavior as that of " the sons of this system of things, " but he used the illustration to drive home a point.
E first dey write things wey no make am happy.		Peter kept a diary.
E get other bad things wey people wey no get God spirit dey do.		What else might identify a physical person?
E go still help you know how you go take tell other people wetin you believe.		They are designed to help you reflect on what you believe, why you believe it, and how you can explain your beliefs to others.
E name na Olga. Where my wife and my two children dey far from where I dey. But, my mind come down because I know sey me and my wife no leave.		Although my wife and daughters were far away, I drew comfort from knowing that Maria and I had remained loyal to.
E never tey wey Christine and Gideon marry, and dem dey Ghana dey pioneer.		Christine recently married Gideon, and together they continue to serve in Ghana.
E no too tey my senior sister, wey im name na Lucy, die when e dey 17 years.		Lucy, my oldest sister, died not much later, at the age of 17.
E talk about the better thing wey come out from the work wey the brothers do for Mexico City. E talk sey: " The first day for assembly, dem tell dem sey make dem invite more people come.		Commenting on the success of the sandwich - sign parade in Mexico City, the magazine La Nacin stated: " The first [ assembly ] day, [ the ] were asked to invite more people.
E talk sey: " I dey shame well well when I small.		She writes: " Growing up, I was really shy.
E think well well about wetin e read ' and understand am. '		She thought deeply about what she read and got " the sense of it. "
E use all im mind arrange people wey go do the work and e gather iron, copper, silver, gold, and cedar wood.		He eagerly organized work groups and gathered iron, copper, silver, and gold, as well as cedar timbers.
Even if Bible no condemn wetin we want do, go happy if we do am?		Will our heavenly Father approve of any decision we make as long as it does not break a Bible law?
Even small children fit sabi the story and the people wey Bible talk about.		Depending on their ability, even very young children can gain a basic education about the people and events of the Bible.
Even though e no easy to learn the language, Tiffany don gain better thing.		Though learning the language was a struggle for Tiffany, her life has been enriched.
Even though na mistake, the blood of the person wey e kill go still dey im head. ( Gen.		Although his deed was accidental, an unintentional manslayer was still guilty of shedding innocent blood.
Fake religion really dey control dem!		Babylon the Great held the people in a viselike grip!
For 1954, the missionary for Lahore begin get small - small problem among theirself. E make the branch office change our assignment.		Sadly, in 1954, the missionaries at Lahore had a clash of personalities, causing the branch office to make reassignments.
For example, dem dey send people wey be missionary go different country wey no be their own. Dem dey stay there for many years before dem go back to their own country for visit.		For example, many Gilead - trained missionaries stay in their foreign assignment for several years before going back to their country of origin for a visit.
For example, we no get book wey write all the type of cloth wey e want make we wear.		Instead, in guiding us he reveals his thinking.
For inside Bible, endurance no be only to just manage bear problem wey pass us.		In the Bible, endurance means more than simply putting up with, or tolerating, a difficult situation.
For the law wey give Israel people, e sey when dem hang person, make dem bury the dead body that day before night come. ( Deut.		Jewish law required that those sentenced to death be buried before sundown.
God arrange the congregation for the apostle time well, and dem gain from everything wey the governing body sey make dem do. Na only the apostles first be the governing body.		The first - century Christian congregation was organized, and it benefited from the direction of the governing body, initially made up of the apostles.
How take dey sofri teach us how to correct ourself?		In what ways does patiently teach us self - discipline?
How you take ready for this work?		How did you prepare for serving where the need is greater?
I go make you strong. "		I will fortify you. "
I stop to salute flag and sign national anthem.		So I stopped participating in the flag salute and in the national anthem.
If na Jesus, wetin e go do for this matter?		What would Christ do in this situation?
If person use this kind ship travel, e fit put the person for big trouble.		Setting off on a journey without an accurate compass can be treacherous.
If we dey treat stranger well, wetin e fit make dem do?		What positive effect can kindness have on newcomers from a foreign background?
If we know how dey think for any matter, that one go help us fit know the kind book, film or video game wey no like. We no go wait make person tell us before we know sey no like that kind thing.		Perceptive Christians do not need to ask whether it is acceptable to be entertained by a certain book, movie, or game that features what hates.
If we want do something and no law for Bible tell us how we go do am, wetin we go do?		What should we do in situations that do not involve a direct Bible command?
Instead, e put mind for the things wey e fit do. Because Noah na ' person wey dey preach wetin good, ' e continue to warn the people about wetin tell am. ( 2 Pet.		As " a preacher of righteousness, " Noah faithfully proclaimed the warning message he had been given.
don really change my life.		also transformed my life.
tell am sey: ' Make you dey read am day and night so that you go fit put eye for ground do everything wey dem write for inside. ' ( Josh.		You must read it in an undertone day and night, " he was told, " in order to observe carefully all that is written in it. "
Jesus tell e disciples to make their light shine so that people go praise God.		Jesus urged his disciples to let their light shine to glorify God.
Job know God well and that one help am.		How accurate knowledge of God benefited Job.
Later, as the prophet dey go house, one lion come kill am for road. - 1 Ki.		Later, on his way home, a lion came across 's prophet on the road and killed him. - 1 Ki.
Like Paul, your example fit help other people endure.		Your endurance can likewise encourage others to endure.
Make we see the three things wey we fit learn from Shebna example.		Let us consider three.
Make you no dey carry shoulder up so that you fit let ' God strong hand ' help you and you fit ' throw all the things wey dey worry you give am. '		Admittedly, you will need humility to yield to " the mighty hand of God " and to " throw all your anxiety on him. "
My papa and mama come sey make Brother Atkinson dey join us eat evening food everyday. E go still dey answer the many Bible question wey we get.		My parents suggested that Brother Atkinson have his evening meal with us every night and answer our many Bible questions.
Na because of the sin wey Adam give everybody.		Over the years, I have seen that prejudice is not really about a person 's skin; it is about sin - the Adamic sin that infects us all.
Na wetin God want I dey like to do.		I always wanted to please God.
Na when I just finish school I start to pioneer.		I started pioneering soon after finishing school.
Na when you dey young you go plan wetin you want use your life do.		Life is like a journey, and the time to plan where you want to go is when you are young.
No be just to know Bible go help us be friend.		Keep in mind that having knowledge of the Bible is not enough to become a spiritually - minded person.
No dey think for your mind sey you sabi everything.		Do not become wise in your own eyes.
No forget sey: If you go preach for another country, you go gain am well well.		If so, begin taking practical steps now toward reaching that goal.
Publishers wey dey south of Chile dey waka pass near one river. The river near forest wey the tree get fresh leaf and mountain wey snow cover wey dem dey call Andes Mountains.		Publishers in the south of Chile follow a river that winds through lush forests and snowcapped peaks of the Andes Mountains.
Remember sey e first dey fear to go area wey need publishers. E think sey im power no reach am.		Remember, she feared that being a need - greater would be beyond her abilities.
Romans 8: 21 make us dey sure sey the new world go come.		At Romans 8: 21, we find a guarantee that the new world will definitely come.
So, when we dey preach to refugee people, make we dress well so that we no go make dem vex.		Therefore, when preaching to refugees, dress so as not to cause needless offense.
So anytime wey dem do wetin this people tell dem, dem dey show sey na be their Leader.		When the people obeyed these men, they were actually following as Leader.
So e come dey think for im mind sey, ' How my husband go feel if I take this plenty money buy only one shoe? '		So she asks herself, ' How would my husband feel about my spending that much money? '
So wetin you fit do to make sure sey you dey gain from your personal Bible study, even if e don tey wey you start to study Bible?		So, what can you do to make sure that your personal Bible study remains productive, even though you may have been studying the Scriptures for years?
So when you dey problem wey big pass you, remember wetin we don talk about eagle.		So when you are faced with a daunting task, remember the eagle.
THE way belle dey sweet man and woman when dem see each other for their wedding day, no be small!		WHEN a lovely bride appears before her handsome bridegroom on their wedding day, words can hardly describe their joy.
The Christians for Macedonia poor well well but dem still beg sey dem want contribute. And dem really use their mind contribute. - 2 Cor.		Our brothers, even those who are in poor economic situations, are like the Macedonians who were in " deep poverty " and yet begged for the privilege to give and did so generously. - 2 Cor.
The first congregation for there don plenty well well, and dem don split.		The first congregation in that borough had grown and divided.
The first thing na to make sure sey your pikin understand wetin you believe from Bible.		First of all, make sure that you clearly state your Bible - based values to your children.
The seed wey e fall for fine soil, first get root, e germinate, and e grow come be plant.		The seed that fell on the fine soil took root, sprouted, and grew into, let us say, a wheat stalk.
They sabi many things for Bible!		I couldn 't believe how much they knew about the Bible!
Try know anything wey fit make their faith weak, and help dem make dem strong.		Try to be aware of any tests to their faith, and help them to deal with these.
Two of dem come comot.		They both left.
We come try to dey spend time with brothers and sisters for congregation pass before. "		Then we try to spend more time with the brothers and sisters. "
We surprise sey Don Steele dey the same class.		To our delight, Don Steele was in the same class.
Wetin Jesus talk sey make we do when other people make mistake?		What did Jesus say we should do when others make mistakes?
Wetin make Witness people different from other people?		Why is God 's organization special?
Wetin we learn from Rehoboam story?		What lesson should we learn from the Bible account of Rehoboam?
When Paul dey do work, some people wey no like im message come dey talk sey: " If you see am face to face, e no strong and wetin e dey talk no dey make sense. "		Even while Paul was carrying on his ministry, some fleshly critics charged that " his presence in person [ was ] weak and his speech contemptible. "
When dem reach there, many of dem dey stay with other brothers for the area. And the brothers take care of dem well.		On arriving, many stayed with local, who lovingly opened their homes to their brothers.
When the pikin stop to dey suck, Hannah do wetin e promise.		After Samuel was weaned, Hannah took him to the tabernacle, just as she had vowed.
Which new way dem take dey choose elder or ministerial servant now?		What adjustment has been made in how elders and ministerial servants are appointed?
Why the sister talk like that?		Why did this sister feel that way?
You no go fit sing well if you no open your mouth well.		You will not produce a full singing voice unless you make space in your mouth.
paragraph 11 ) E go still help you, if you go read the story about how some of our brothers and sisters take endure for our time.		paragraph 11 ) You will also find it encouraging to review the endurance of God 's people in modern times.
No fear, get strong mind, and do the work.		Be courageous and strong and go to work.
The elders and the circuit overseer go take time check whether the brother dey do wetin Bible talk sey make people wey want be elders and ministerial servant dey do. - 1 Tim.		The body of elders and the circuit overseer carefully consider the Scriptural qualifications for ministerial servants and elders. - 1 Tim.
Some of this Zealots begin cause trouble so that they go get wetin they want.		Some of the Zealots even resorted to violence to further their goals.
Later, dem born am as baby for this earth; e come grow to be man.		Then he helped make other spirit creatures, the material universe, and finally, humans.
Paul talk sey the fight wey Christian dey fight be like the one wey people wey dey run and do boxing for Greece dey do. ( Heb.		Paul compared the struggles of Christians to the exertion of athletes contending in Greek contests, such as footracing, wrestling, and boxing.
Wetin Jesus talk really show how people for our time go dey use one mind serve am, whether dem dey go heaven or dem go stay this earth!		How well Jesus ' words describe the spiritual unity of 's people today no matter what hope they have for the future!
So, when God dey correct person, e mean sey e love am and e want make e get life wey no go end. ( Heb.		That is because God 's discipline is an expression of his love for us and of his desire that we gain everlasting life.
How we take know sey e go hard for us more more mek we no join politics?		How do we know that it will become more difficult to remain neutral?
Wetin happen for the special meeting wey we do for October 2016?		What announcement was made at the 2016 annual meeting?
People wey their house small fit invite brothers to stay with dem?		Can even those who have modest dwellings assist?
Wetin we dey sure of?		Of what can we be confident?
If person no dey control imself, which problem e fit cause?		What can result from a lack of self - control?
Why Babylon be correct place to keep " Wickedness "?		Why is Shinar the " proper place " for " Wickedness " to reside?
Even if things no easy for your side, you fit still dey do wetin e like and serve am well.		Even under adverse circumstances, you can praise and make spiritual progress.
This one mean sey you go put all your body for the study.		That will take real effort on your part.
Wetin e mean to dey patient?		What is involved in being patient?
Noah still know sey na human being God tell to born children full this earth.		Also, Noah knew that humans were told to reproduce and fill the earth.
Why many Jews no come dey understand Bible wey dem write for Hebrew language?		Why were many Jews in the third century B.C.E. unable to understand the Hebrew Scriptures?
After that one, give am any fruit, like apple and ask am: " Wetin make if you see apple, you know sey na apple? "		Then hand your child a piece of fruit, perhaps an apple, and ask: " Did you know that this apple started off with a ' recipe '? "
All of dem dey join hand to make sure sey peace dey their country and dem dey care for the people.		Government officials are expected to maintain law and order and to care for the needs of their citizens.
Another thing be sey, if you tell the brothers and sisters wey dey your congregation, dem go fit still help you.		Also, if members of the congregation know what your situation is, they can encourage you.
Anytime dem help me prepare assignment for meeting, I dey learn pass if only me prepare.		When they helped me with student talk assignments for the meeting, I always learned more.
Apostle Paul write about the things wey God make, when e sey: ' [ God ] character wey dem no dey see, dey show well well from the time wey e make this world, because we fit see am from the things wey e make, even im power wey no dey finish and sey im na God, so dem no fit talk sey dem no know. ' - Rom.		Regarding creation, the apostle Paul wrote: " [ God 's ] invisible qualities are clearly seen from the world 's creation onward, because they are perceived by the things made, even his eternal power and Godship, so that they are inexcusable. " - Rom.
Around 1965, one Witness family pack come the area wey Upper Bronx congregation dey. Dem come from Latvia, and na when dem dey south Bronx dem become Witness.		In the mid - 1960 ' s, a Latvian family of who had come into the truth in the south Bronx moved into the territory of that congregation.
As part of our worship to, we dey use our mind give wetin we get. This one dey show sey we value and support the work wey organization dey do.		Likewise today, unselfish giving in appreciation for and in support of the work of the earthly part of 's organization is a fundamental aspect of worship.
As we dey talk about this four way, see how you go take use any of dem for your life.		As we examine these four ways, see if you can identify practical steps that you want to take.
Because organization change many brothers work for 2015, dem come sey make Daniel and Miriam continue their preaching work as regular pioneer.		In 2015, as a result of adjustments in the organization, Daniel and Miriam were asked to continue their service as regular pioneers.
Before, some of our brothers and sisters dey thief, take igbo and put hand for sex wey no clean for God eye.		Some of our brothers and sisters were formerly thieves, drug addicts, or sexually immoral.
Bible explain sey ' to get faith for God ' na part of the first thing wey person go get so that e go be true Christian and continue to be true Christian.		God 's Word describes " faith in God " as part of the " foundation " that is needed for anyone to become and remain a true Christian.
Bible talk sey dem be ' gift ' wey don give congregation. And dey use dem care for im people.		The Bible refers to them as " gifts in men, " and they are a key part of God 's arrangement to care for the needs of his people.
Bible wey people understand well well when dem first translate am, fit no be like that again as time dey go.		A Bible translation that was easily understood when first produced may later become less effective.
But, dem be pioneer wey like to dey preach well well.		The men were not explorers or adventurers.
But Joseph no want make dem do Jesus body like that.		But that is not what Joseph had in mind for Jesus.
But how we fit let wetin we read enter our mind?		How can we meditate effectively?
But make we remember sey many times when we dey talk, ' we dey make mistake. ' ( Jas.		However, we should keep in mind that when we speak, " we all stumble many times. "
Church leaders no just gree at all.		The church fought back.
Dem no stop to do wetin God want.		They kept doing God 's will.
E fit dey change our mind small small, sotey we no go know when we start to believe the lie.		In this context, it is the use of biased or misleading information to manipulate the way people think and act.
E get anything wey we learn from wetin Jephthah do?		Will we learn from Jephthah 's example?
E get wetin happen when Paul dey near Aegean Sea, for Asia Minor.		He was on the other side of the Aegean Sea, in Asia Minor.
E go make sense if we go meet old people wey don do the work before for advice, and think about wetin dem talk.		It is wise to seek and consider carefully the advice of older, experienced ones.
E good make we dey contribute to support the preaching work wey Jesus talk about. E go show sey we dey use our money and property well.		An obvious way to prove ourselves faithful with our material things is by contributing financially to the worldwide preaching work that Jesus foretold would take place.
E know this one. Na im make e send Jesus come die for us.		He knows this and has lovingly made provision for us by means of Christ 's ransom.
E no fit change! '		He is a fanatic! "
E still make me see sey other brothers and sisters get us for mind.		And fellow care about one another.
E still talk say: Even though they no de accept wetin we believe everytime, them de really listen when you read something from Bible. "		But when you show them something from the Bible, they will listen attentively. "
E still talk sey: ' For this life, e better make person get only small property wey e fit get.		He added: " Life is far better traversed with as little baggage as possible.
E talk sey: " E pain me well well.		He admits: " I was crushed.
E talk sey: " When I never be Christian, I dey work for one big company. The oga wey get the company no dey gree talk all the money wey the company dey gain, so that e no go pay all the tax wey e suppose pay.		He says: " Before becoming a Christian, I was working for a large company where the owner evaded paying taxes by reporting only a small portion of the company 's profit.
Elders need to make sure sey their life or the life of people wey dey work with dem, no dey for danger. ( Prov.		Elders in particular strive to be conscious of both their own safety and the safety of those working around them.
Even if e be like sey na that one go end the problem, many times, the problem fit even serious pass when e start.		Though separation may seem to be the answer when serious difficulties arise, it often causes more problems.
For many years, use im prophet dem talk about one special leader wey go lead im people.		For centuries, prophesied that he would appoint a uniquely qualified leader for his people.
For night, one strong earthquake shake the prison, and all the door come open.		During the night, an earthquake shook the foundations of the jail and opened all the doors.
For where e dey work, people no dey treat am well because no be Japan person.		At his workplace, he was not treated as well as the local employees.
From how we take sabi am now, wetin we fit learn from this Ezekiel vision?		So in light of this adjusted understanding, what lessons do we learn from Ezekiel 's vision?
Gloria go chop inside the house but no be with the people, and I go chop outside for car park.		Gloria ate inside the house but separate from the family, while I ate outside in the garage.
How e be sey if we dey go meeting, dey answer question and we dey sing for our meeting fit help our brothers and sisters?		When our brothers see us at the meetings and hear us comment and sing, how does this help them?
How im story take concern you?		And what makes his story worthy of your interest?
How we go take show sey we get cool temper and we no dey raise shoulder up?		How can we demonstrate humility and mildness?
I dey around 2 years that time.		After a few years, he and I began attending meetings with my mother.
If we do research we go see sey na around 612 years before dem born Jesus, Ezekiel write this thing.		By doing some research, we learn that this portion of Ezekiel was written in about the year 612 B.C.E.
If we no do am, e fit affect the whole congregation.		Once bitterness overpowers a person 's heart, it can even impact the spirit of the congregation.
If you want know more, press " Contribute to Support the Work Wey We Dey Do for the Whole World " wey dey the bottom of the frist page for our website or ask the branch office for your country.		If available in your country, the brochure may be obtained by requesting a copy from the secretary of the local congregation. For more information, select the link " Make a Donation to Our Worldwide Work " at the bottom of the home page on jw.org, or contact the branch office.
bless other brothers and sisters wey don go preach for where publishers no too plenty. Like dem, single sisters wey don do this work talk sey the work don make their life better.		Like other need - greaters, single sisters living in foreign lands often express that serving abroad enriched their lives.
go use Jesus sacrifice take help all im children dey righteous.		Through his provision of the ransom, will help all of his children to become completely righteous.
like David well well, even talk sey David na ' person wey dey do wetin sweet am. ' ( 1 Sam.		David was loved by, who found him to be a man " agreeable to his heart. "
no waste time send Elijah go meet Ahab.		swiftly dispatched Elijah to confront Ahab.
want make we dey patient and make e come from our mind to wait for am.		Without a doubt, therefore, each one of us needs to be willing to wait, to show a patient attitude.
Kumiko wey dey 65 years now, dey pioneer before for Japan when im pioneer partner tell am sey make dem travel go one country wey dem dey call Nepal.		Kumiko, now in her mid - 60 ' s, was serving as a regular pioneer in Japan when her pioneer partner suggested that they move to Nepal.
LIKE apostle Paul, some people today go rule with Jesus for heaven. Bible sey na ' wetin God promise ' dem be that.		LIKE the apostle Paul, spirit - anointed Christians today have the precious prospect of receiving " the prize of the upward call of God. "
Later for another place, I come meet one family wey I like because of their better character.		Later, in a different setting, I met a family whom I admired because of their good conduct.
Like Aaron and Hur, make we find wetin we fit do to support and help other people.		As for us, we can look for ways to support and to give practical aid to others.
Make una dey help dem more more, if e get anything wey want make their faith weak for school.		We should also give them extra support if they are facing tests of integrity day after day in school.
Make we breath well.		We should breathe properly.
Make we come talk about the things wey organization for this earth dey do for this our time.		Reflect on what the earthly part of God 's organization has been accomplishing in these last days.
Make we no do wetin go worry other people for mind.		Christians respect others ' consciences.
Make we no think sey go do miracle now wey go just comot all our problem before im Kingdom come. And make we no think sey big thing go just happen for our life like that.		Granted, we do not expect that will miraculously take away all our problems before the promised new world; nor do we demand that spectacular things occur in our lives.
Make we ready to greet people and encourage them.		We should be ready to greet others and encourage them.
My wife come sey na wetin e still dey think be that. "		My wife said that she was thinking about the same thing. "
Na Enoch be Noah great - grandpapa. The people for Enoch time wicked well well.		By the time of Noah 's great - grandfather Enoch, people had become very ungodly.
Na im make our yeartext for 2017 really make sense: ' Trust and do wetin good '! - Ps.		How fitting, then, is our yeartext for 2017: " Trust in and do what is good "! - Ps.
One brother talk sey the place be like paradise because e fine and bad people no dey there.		In the delightful parklike surroundings, away from the noise of the old world, it was a paradise indeed, " recalled one brother.
Other things wey go help you study Bible well still dey for April 2009 Awake!		How Can I Make Bible Reading Enjoyable? " in the April 2009 issue of Awake!
Our conscience dey like that steering.		Our conscience can be likened to a moral compass.
People wey come from another place go try make dem fit sabi how people dey do things for the new place wey dem dey.		Of course, immigrants will want to do their best to adjust to the culture of the new country.
Satan try to comot correct Christians from this world but e no work for am.		Satan 's effort to eradicate true Christianity from the earth has failed miserably.
Some people sey no be we dey choose wetin we want do. Dem sey God don already plan everything wey we dey do.		Some claim that there is no such thing as free will - that all our actions are predetermined by God.
Story of many people wey surprise dey Bible. Make we talk about Hezekiah.		As we search the Scriptures, time and again we find examples of doing the unexpected.
That time, go still dey mold us and dey teach us well well. ( Isa. 11: 9 ) God go still comot the sin wey dey our body and mind.		During that time of global restoration, will continue to mold earth 's inhabitants, educating them to a degree that we might now find hard to imagine.
The advice for Bible wey fit help us dey 1 Corinthians 15: 33.		Note the Scriptural principle found at 1 Corinthians 15: 33.
The answer dey for wetin Jesus talk for Sermon on the Mount wey dey Matthew 6: 25 - 34.		Consider Jesus ' encouraging words in the portion of his Sermon on the Mount found at Matthew 6: 25 - 34.
The answer dey this two topic.		Such important matters are discussed in these articles.
The first thing be sey, machine wey dey print with wetin dem dey call " movable type " come dey.		The first was the invention in the mid - 15th century of a printing press that used movable type.
The number one enemy wey we get serious fight with na Satan and im wicked world. ( Eph.		First, we have an intense struggle ( or, " wrestling, " ftn. ) against Satan and his wicked world.
The second example of person wey Bible talk about wey dem bring come life na for prophet Elisha time.		The second resurrection related in the Scriptures was performed by Elijah 's successor, the prophet Elisha.
The truth be sey, many people no fit get this things, and that one dey cause pain and stress.		Often, those pursuits are unattainable and bring only stress and heartache.
This one don make Witness for the whole world plenty pass eight million.		This has resulted in the development of a worldwide spiritual paradise that has over eight million inhabitants.
This one go help us choose wetin go make happy, and wetin go make our conscience no worry us.		This, in turn, helps us to make decisions that leave us with a clean conscience and God 's approval.
This one help me for the new area wey dem send me go. For the Vietnamese language group wey dey there, na only me be the elder.		This helped me with my present pioneer assignment, where I am the only elder in a Vietnamese - language group.
This people get handwork and dem dey sell wetin dem don make for inside town.		They usually go to the city to sell the beautiful products that they make.
Timothy mama and grandmama teach am God Word, even though sey im papa no dey serve. And Timothy value wetin e learn.		Even though Timothy grew up in a religiously divided household, his Jewish mother and grandmother cultivated in him an appreciation for the Scriptures, as the Jews understood them.
Today, plenty people for the world de do partial.		Today, most of us are surrounded by prejudice.
We de thank as e don bless us with peace wey e go last forever!		How thankful we are to be blessed with lasting inner peace!
We go still de allow God spirit direct our heart and mind. And we go de take people their advice and show say we value - am. - w18.02, p.		We must also keep our mind and heart open to the influence of holy spirit and gratefully accept help from others. - w18.02, p.
We go still dey ' do good for everybody, but especially for people wey dey the same faith with us. ' ( Gal.		We also keep working " what is good toward all, but especially toward those related to us in the faith. "
We know because, when the elders for the village beg am mek e come help dem, e no waste time go help dem.		Because when the elders of the nation begged him to help them, he did so right away.
Wetin Ahab do pain Naboth family and im friend dem well well. But their mind come down because dem know sey see wetin happen and e no waste time judge the matter.		Although Naboth 's family and friends were saddened by Ahab 's murderous actions, they no doubt found some measure of comfort in knowing that was aware of the injustice and that he quickly addressed the wrongdoing.
Wetin we fit learn from dem, and wetin go help us no make the kind mistake wey dem make?		What can we learn from their experiences, and how can we avoid a similar course?
Wetin we suppose remember when we dey choose wetin we go watch or listen to?		As to our choice of entertainment, what should we keep in mind?
Wetin you promise for your wedding day ( Check paragraph 14 )		Marriage vow ( See paragraph 14 )
When Mary go visit Zechariah and Elizabeth wey be im family people, e talk things wey show sey e dey allow God spirit direct am.		She showed clear evidence of spirituality in her beautiful expressions of praise when she visited the home of her relatives Zechariah and Elizabeth.
When elders no dey carry shoulder up, e go make brothers and sisters love, respect and praise dem ( Check paragraph 13 - 15 )		As they serve with humility, elders earn love, respect, and honor ( See paragraphs 13 - 15 )
When the box don full, e come use all the money support preaching work.		When the box was full, she handed the money over to be used for the preaching work.
When the pikin still small, e go dey look im papa as e dey drive.		When he is a child, the son simply observes his father.
When we do the correct thing, people fit see the sense wey we get.		Others may note the wisdom, or good sense, in our actions.
You think sey, people wey get different character no go fit be friend?		Do you feel, however, that people who have distinctly different personalities are bound to have problems?
